<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/index.html>

Skip directly to search <#searchTarget> Skip directly to A to Z list

<#azTab> Skip directly to navigation

<#nav-container> Skip directly to page options

<#share-bar> Skip directly to site content

<#contentArea>
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
<https://www.cdc.gov/>
Start of Search Controls <#>
Search Form Controls

Cancel

Submit

Search the CDC

CDC A-Z Index <#>

  * MENU <#>
  * CDC A-Z <#>
  * SEARCH <#>

  * A

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/a.html>
  * B

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/b.html>
  * C

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/c.html>
  * D

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/d.html>
  * E

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/e.html>
  * F

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/f.html>
  * G

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/g.html>
  * H

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/h.html>
  * I

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/i.html>
  * J

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/j.html>
  * K

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/k.html>
  * L

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/l.html>
  * M

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/m.html>
  * N

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/n.html>
  * O

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/o.html>
  * P

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/p.html>
  * Q

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/q.html>
  * R

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/r.html>
  * S

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/s.html>
  * T

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/t.html>
  * U

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/u.html>
  * V

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/v.html>
  * W

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/w.html>
  * X

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/x.html>
  * Y

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/y.html>
  * Z

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/z.html>
  * #

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/0.html>

Start of Search Controls <#>
Search Form Controls

Cancel

Submit

Search the CDC


    Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease) <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/index.html>


      Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease) <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/index.html>

  * About Ebola <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/about.html>
    collapse <#>
      o Questions & Answers <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/qa.html>
  * 2014-2016 West Africa Outbreak
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o What’s New Timeline
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/whats-new.html>
      o Case Counts
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/case-counts.html>
        expand <#>
          + Previous Case Counts
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/previous-case-counts.html>
          + Outbreak Cases Distribution Map
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/distribution-map.html>
          + Reported Cases Graphs
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/cumulative-cases-graphs.html>
          + Previous Outbreak Updates
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/previous-updates.html>
          + Cases of Ebola Diagnosed in the U.S.
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/united-states-imported-case.html>
      o Q&A: 2014 Ebola Outbreak
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/qa.html>
      o 2014 West Africa Ebola Outbreak Communication Resources
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Guinea
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/guinea.html>
          + Guinea-Bissau
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/guinea-bissau.html>
          + Liberia
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/liberia.html>
          + Sierra Leone
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/sierra-leone.html>
          + West Africans in the United States
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/west-africans-in-usa.html>
          + Other African Countries
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/other-african-countries.html>
          + Partnering with West African Communities Call
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/communication-resources/west-african-communities-call.html>
      o CDC’s Role
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/what-cdc-is-doing.html>
        expand <#>
          + Photos From the Field
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/photos.html>
          + CDC Responder Stories
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/responders.html>

              # Allison Friedman
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/stories-health-communications-in-guinea-atlanta.html>
              # Gary Cobb, Arthur Hudson, and Drenda Morrissette
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/stories-staff-support-sierra-leone.html>
              # John Saindon and Brian Bird
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/stories-laboratorian.html>
              # Karen Wong
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/stories-karen-wong.html>
              # Angela Dunn
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/stories-angela-dunn.html>
              # Brant Goode
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/stories-brant-goode.html>
          + CDC In The News
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/cdc-in-the-news.html>
      o Ebola Survivors Questions and Answers
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/survivors.html>
      o Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/cost-of-ebola.html>
      o Information for Families and Loved Ones of Responders
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/families.html>
      o Q&A: Estimating the Future Number of Cases (Liberia and Sierra
        Leone)
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/qa-mmwr-estimating-future-cases.html>
  * Outbreaks <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Outbreak Chronology
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/history/chronology.html>
      o Outbreak Distribution Map
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/history/distribution-map.html>
      o Outbreak Summaries: 2000-2017
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/history/summaries.html>
        expand <#>
          + 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas Uélé District
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/drc/2017-may.html>
          + 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Outbreak
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/drc/2014-august.html>
      o Outbreak Preparedness
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/preparedness/outbreak-preparedness.html>
        expand <#>
          + Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/preparedness/planning-tips-top10.html>
          + Managing and Preventing Cases of Malaria in Areas with Ebola
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/malaria-cases.html>
      o Phone Numbers for State and Local Health Departments
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/state-local-health-department-contacts.html>
      o Contact Tracing
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/what-is-contact-tracing.html>
  * Signs and Symptoms <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/symptoms/index.html>
  * Transmission <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Q&As about Ebola and Food Safety in the United States
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/qas-food-safety.html>
      o Q&As on Transmission
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/qas.html>
      o Q&As about Ebola, Pets, and Other Animals
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/qas-pets.html>
      o Review of Human-to-Human Transmission of Ebola Virus
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/human-transmission.html>
  * Risk of Exposure <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/exposure/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Epidemiologic Risk Factors to Consider when Evaluating a Person
        for Exposure to Ebola Virus
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/exposure/risk-factors-when-evaluating-person-for-exposure.html>
      o Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement
        of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/exposure/monitoring-and-movement-of-persons-with-exposure.html>
        expand <#>
          + Influenza Vaccination Recommendations for People Being
            Actively Monitored for Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/exposure/flu.html>
      o Interim Guidance on Implementing Home Monitoring of People Being
        Evaluated for Ebola Virus Disease
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/exposure/implementing-home-monitoring-for-people-being-evaluated.html>
  * Prevention <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Cleaning and Decontamination
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/cleaning-and-decontamination.html>
        expand <#>
          + Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola
            Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/cleaning-us-homes.html>
          + Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/handling-sewage.html>
          + FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from
            Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/faq-untreated-sewage.html>
          + Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in
            Commercial Passenger Aircraft
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/cleaning-commercial-passenger-aircraft.html>
  * Diagnosis <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/diagnosis/index.html>
  * Treatment <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/treatment/index.html>
  * Sierra Leone Vaccine Trial
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/strive/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Q&As on Sierra Leone Vaccine Trial
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/strive/qa.html>
  * Information for Specific Groups
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/groups/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Employers and Employees
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/business/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Businesses and Business Travelers
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/business/business-travelers.html>
          + Q&As for Business and Business Travelers
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/business/qa-business-travelers.html>
      o Resources for Parents, Schools, and Pediatric Healthcare
        Professionals <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/children/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Addressing Ebola Virus Infection Concerns in K-12 Schools
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/children/k-12-school-guidance.html>
      o Public Health Resources
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/public-health-resources/index.html>
  * U.S. Healthcare Workers and Settings
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Preparing for Ebola – A Tiered Approach
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Hospital Preparedness: A Tiered Approach
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/hospitals.html>

              # Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/frontline-healthcare-facilities.html>
              # Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/assessment-hospitals.html>
              # Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/treatment-centers.html>
              # Current Ebola Treatment Centers
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/current-treatment-centers.html>
          + For Clinicians
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/clinicians.html>
          + Preparedness Checklists
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/checklists.html>
      o Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/ppe/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable
            PUIs
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/ppe/guidance.html>
          + Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/ppe/guidance-clinically-stable-puis.html>
          + Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/ppe/faq.html>
          + Training
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/ppe/training.html>
          + PPE Supply Considerations
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/ppe/supplies.html>
          + PPE Calculator
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/ppe/calculator.html>
      o Evaluating Patients
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Case Definition
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/case-definition.html>
          + Think Ebola
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/think-ebola.html>
          + FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/faqs-screening-ebola-providers-hc-facilities-health-departments.html>
          + Discharging Persons Under Investigation
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/discharging.html>
          + Evaluating Travelers
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/evaluating-travelers.html>
          + Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/guidance-for-management-of-survivors-ebola.html>
          + Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/messages-for-care-of-survivors-ebola-.html>
      o Cleaning and Disinfecting
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/cleaning/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Hospital Guidance
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/cleaning/hospitals.html>
          + Waste Management
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/cleaning/waste-management.html>
          + Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/cleaning/ebola-virus-survivability.html>
          + Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/cleaning/handling-waste.html>
      o Emergency Services
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Emergency Department Guidance
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/emergency-departments.html>
          + Emergency Department Preparedness Training
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/emergency-department-training.html>
          + EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/ems-systems.html>
          + Air Medical Transport SOP
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/air-medical-transport.html>
          + Transport of Pediatric Patients
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/transporting-pediatric-patients.html>
          + Interfacility Transport Guidance
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/interfacility-transport.html>

              # Patient Handoff SOP
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/patient-handoff.html>
              # Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/air-ground-patient-handoff.html>
              # Ambulance Decontamination
                <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/emergency-services/ambulance-decontamination.html>
      o Hospitals
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/hospitals/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Infection Control
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/hospitals/infection-control.html>
          + Acute Hemodialysis
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/hospitals/acute-hemodialysis.html>
          + Pregnant Women
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/hospitals/pregnant-women.html>
          + Handling Human Remains
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/hospitals/handling-human-remains.html>
          + Neonatal Care
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/hospitals/neonatal-care.html>
      o Outpatient Settings
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/outpatient-settings/index.html>
      o Information for Laboratories
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/specimens.html>
          + Packing and Shipping Specimens
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/shipping-specimens.html>
          + Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/safe-specimen-management.html>
          + Select Agent Regulations
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/select-agent-regulations.html>
          + Non-CDC Resources
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/non-cdc-resources.html>
  * Non-U.S. Healthcare Settings
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/non-us-healthcare-settings.html>
    expand <#>
      o Guidance for Ambulance Service Providers
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/guidance-ambulance-service-providers.html>
      o Determining Risk of Ebola Transmission in Healthcare and
        Community Settings
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/determining-risk.html>
      o Four Keys to Infection Control
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/keys-to-infection-control.html>
      o Q&As: Infection Control in Healthcare Settings in Countries with
        Widespread Transmission
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/qa-infection-control-general-healthcare-widespread-ebola-transmission.html>
      o Stories From the Field
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/stories.html>
      o Training: Healthcare Workers Going to Africa
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/safety-training-course/index.html>
        expand <#>
          + Continuing Education
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/safety-training-course/continuing-education.html>
          + Toolkit
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/safety-training-course/training-toolkit.html>
      o Managing Patient Flow During Triage, Isolation, and Care of
        Patients Under Investigation or with Confirmed Ebola Virus
        Disease (EVD)
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/managing-patient-flow.html>
      o Initial Screening of Patients Within the Healthcare System
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/initial-patient-screening.html>
      o Case Definitions for Evaluating Suspected Ebola Patients
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/case-definitions.html>
      o Hand Hygiene <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/hand-hygiene.html>
      o Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Recommended for Low Resource
        Settings
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/recommended-ppe.html>
      o Limiting Heat Burden While Wearing PPE
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/limiting-heat-burden.html>
      o Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/safe-injection-practices.html>
      o Guidance for Drawing Blood Safely When Caring for Patients Under
        Investigation or with Confirmed EVD
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/drawing-blood-safely.html>
      o Safely Cleaning and Disinfecting Areas Used by Patients Under
        Investigation (PUIs) or with Confirmed EVD
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/cleaning-up-safely.html>
      o Recommendations for Cleaning Houses in West Africa
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/cleaning-houses-safely-in-west-africa.html>
      o Prepare and Use Chlorine Solutions
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/mixing-chlorine-solutions.html>
      o How to Prepare and Use Chlorine Solutions in West Africa
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/chlorine-solutions.html>
      o Managing Ebola Patients, Their Families, and the Community
        Safely and Compassionately
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/international/manage-safely-and-compassionately.html>
      o Recommendations for Breastfeeding
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/recommendations-breastfeeding-infant-feeding-ebola.html>
  * Communication Resources
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Videos <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/videos.html>
      o Audio <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/audio.html>
      o Infographics & Illustrations
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/infographics.html>
      o Factsheets <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/factsheets.html>
      o Posters <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/posters.html>
      o Virus Ecology Graphic
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/virus-ecology.html>

illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses
next-generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in bats
<https://www.cdc.gov/amd/project-summaries/novel-filoviruses.html>

MMWR Ebola Reports <https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/ebola_reports.html>

CDC <https://www.cdc.gov/>Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)
<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/index.html>


  About Ebola Virus Disease

Recommend on Facebook

<http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/facebook/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html&title=About%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%7C%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=>
Tweet

<http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/twitter/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html&title=About%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%7C%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=>
Share

<#socialMediaShareContainer>

  * Share via TwitterTwitter

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/twitter/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html&title=About%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%7C%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=>
  * Share via FacebookFacebook

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/facebook/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html&title=About%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%7C%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=>
  * Share via LinkedInLinkedIn

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/linkedin/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html&title=About%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%7C%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=>
  * Share via EmailEmail

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/email/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html&title=About%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%7C%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=>
  * Share via DiggDigg

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/digg/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html&title=About%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%7C%20Ebola%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=>
  *
    /

    /Add this to your site

    <https://tools.cdc.gov/medialibrary/index.aspx#/sharecontent/https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Febola%2Fabout.html>

Ebola Virus Ecology and
Transmission(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/virus-ecology.html)
<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/virus-ecology.html>

Ebola, previously known as Ebola hemorrhagic fever, is a rare and deadly
disease caused by infection with one of the Ebola virus species. Ebola
can cause disease in humans and nonhuman primates (monkeys, gorillas,
and chimpanzees).

Ebola is caused by infection with a virus of the family
/Filoviridae/(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/virus-families/filoviridae.html)
<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/virus-families/filoviridae.html>, genus
/Ebolavirus/. There are five identified Ebola virus species, four of
which are known to cause disease in humans: Ebola virus (/Zaire
ebolavirus/); Sudan virus (/Sudan ebolavirus/); Taï Forest virus (/Taï
Forest ebolavirus/, formerly /Côte d’Ivoire ebolavirus/); and Bundibugyo
virus (/Bundibugyo ebolavirus/). The fifth, Reston virus (/Reston
ebolavirus/), has caused disease in nonhuman primates, but not in humans.

Ebola viruses are found in several African countries. Ebola was first
discovered in 1976 near the Ebola River in what is now the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. Since then, outbreaks have appeared sporadically
in Africa.

The natural reservoir host of Ebola virus remains unknown. However, on
the basis of evidence and the nature of similar viruses, researchers
believe that the virus is animal-borne and that bats are the most likely
reservoir. Four of the five virus strains occur in an animal host native
to Africa.

People get Ebola through direct contact (through broken skin or mucous
membranes in, for example, the eyes, nose, or mouth) with

  * blood or body fluids (including but not limited to urine, saliva,
    sweat, feces, vomit, breast milk, and semen) of a person who is sick
    with or has died from Ebola,
  * objects (like needles and syringes) that have been contaminated with
    body fluids from a person who is sick with Ebola or the body of a
    person who has died from Ebola,
  * infected fruit bats or primates (apes and monkeys), and
  * possibly from contact with semen from a man who has recovered from
    Ebola (for example, by having oral, vaginal, or anal sex)


      Related Links

  * U.S. Case Definition for Ebola Virus
    Disease(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/case-definition.html)
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/evaluating-patients/case-definition.html>
  * Questions and Answers on the 2014 West Africa Ebola
    Outbreak(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/qa.html)
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/qa.html>
  * Information for
    Laboratories(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/index.html)
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/laboratories/index.html>

illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses
next-generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in
bats(https://www.cdc.gov/amd/project-summaries/novel-filoviruses.html)
<https://www.cdc.gov/amd/project-summaries/novel-filoviruses.html>

MMWR Ebola Reports <https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/ebola_reports.html>


          File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
<https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/>

  * Adobe PDF file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#pdf>
  * Microsoft PowerPoint file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#ppt>
  * Microsoft Word file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#doc>
  * Microsoft Excel file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#xls>
  * Audio/Video file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#wmv>
  * Apple Quicktime file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#qt>
  * RealPlayer file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#ram>
  * Text file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#text>
  * Zip Archive file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#zip>
  * SAS file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#sas>
  * ePub file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#epub>
  * RIS file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#ris>

  * Page last reviewed: February 18, 2016
  * Page last updated: February 18, 2016
  * Content source:
      o Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
        <https://www.cdc.gov/index.htm>
        National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
        (NCEZID) <https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dw-index.html>
        Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)
        <https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/index.html>
        Viral Special Pathogens Branch (VSPB)
        <https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/vspb/index.html>

  * Email

    <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/emailupdates>
  * Recommend

    <https://www.facebook.com/CDC>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/CDCgov>
  * YouTube

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/CDCstreamingHealth>
  * Instagram

    <https://www.instagram.com/CDCgov/>

  * Listen

    <https://www2c.cdc.gov/podcasts>
  * Watch

    <https://www.cdc.gov/cdctv>
  * RSS

    <https://www2c.cdc.gov/podcasts/rss.asp>

  *


    ABOUT

      o About CDC <https://www.cdc.gov/about/default.htm>
      o Jobs <https://jobs.cdc.gov/>
      o Funding <https://www.cdc.gov/funding>

  *


    LEGAL

      o Policies <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/policies.html>
      o Privacy <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/privacy.html>
      o FOIA <https://www.cdc.gov/od/foia>
      o No Fear Act <https://www.cdc.gov/eeo/nofearact/index.htm>
      o OIG <https://oig.hhs.gov/>

  *
    1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA
    800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636), TTY: 888-232-6348
    Email CDC-INFO <https://wwwn.cdc.gov/dcs/RequestForm.aspx>

  *
    U.S. Department of Health & Human Services <https://www.hhs.gov/>
    HHS/Open <https://www.hhs.gov/open>
    USA.gov <https://www.usa.gov/>

TOP
