<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>

Page semi-protected
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Protection_policy#semi>


  Ebola virus disease

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: navigation <#mw-head>, search <#p-search>
"Ebola" redirects here. For other uses, see Ebola (disambiguation)
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_(disambiguation)>.
Ebola virus disease
Synonyms 	Ebola hemorrhagic fever (EHF), Ebola
7042 lores-Ebola-Zaire-CDC Photo.jpg
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:7042_lores-Ebola-Zaire-CDC_Photo.jpg>
Two nurses standing near Mayinga N'Seka
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayinga_N%27Seka>, a nurse with Ebola
virus disease in the 1976 outbreak in Zaire
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mabalo_Lokela>. N'Seka died a few days
later.
Specialty <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specialty_(medicine)>
Infectious disease
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infectious_disease_(medical_specialty)>
Symptoms 	Fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fever>, sore throat
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sore_throat>, muscular pain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myalgia>, headaches
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headaches>, diarrhea
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diarrhea>, bleeding^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Complications <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complication_(medicine)>
Low blood pressure from fluid loss
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypovolemic_shock>^[2]
<#cite_note-Ruz2014-2>
Usual onset 	2 days to 3 weeks post exposure^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Causes 	Ebolaviruses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolavirus> spread
by direct contact^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Diagnostic method <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diagnostic_method>
Finding the virus, viral RNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA>, or
antibodies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibodies> in blood^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Similar conditions
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differential_diagnosis> 	Malaria
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaria>, cholera
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cholera>, typhoid fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typhoid_fever>, meningitis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningitis>, other viral hemorrhagic
fevers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fevers>^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Prevention 	Coordinated medical services, careful handling of bushmeat
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bushmeat>^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Treatment 	Supportive care
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supportive_care>^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Prognosis 	25–90% mortality^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
[edit on Wikidata <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q51993>]

*Ebola virus disease* (*EVD*), also known as *Ebola hemorrhagic fever*
(*EHF*) or simply *Ebola*, is a viral hemorrhagic fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever> of humans and
other primates <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primate> caused by
ebolaviruses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolavirus>.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Signs and symptoms typically start between two
days and three weeks after contracting the virus with a fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fever>, sore throat
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sore_throat>, muscular pain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myalgia>, and headaches
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headaches>.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Then, vomiting <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vomiting>, diarrhea
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diarrhea> and rash
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rash> usually follow, along with
decreased function of the liver <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liver>
and kidneys <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kidney>.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> At this time, some people begin to bleed
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bleeding> both internally
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internal_bleeding> and externally.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> The disease has a high risk of death, killing
between 25 and 90 percent of those infected, with an average of about 50
percent.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> This is often due to low blood
pressure from fluid loss
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypovolemic_shock>, and typically follows
six to sixteen days after symptoms appear.^[2] <#cite_note-Ruz2014-2>

The virus spreads by direct contact with body fluids
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Body_fluid>, such as blood
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood>, of an infected human or other
animals.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> This may also occur through contact
with an item recently contaminated with bodily fluids.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Spread of the disease through the air between
primates, including humans, has not been documented in either laboratory
or natural conditions.^[3] <#cite_note-WHOAir2014-3> Semen
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semen> or breast milk
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breast_milk> of a person after recovery
from EVD may carry the virus for several weeks to months.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> ^[4] <#cite_note-cdc9months-4> ^[5]
<#cite_note-CDCBreast2014-5> Fruit bats
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Megabat> are believed to be the normal
carrier in nature <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_host>, able to
spread the virus without being affected by it.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Other diseases such as malaria
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaria>, cholera
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cholera>, typhoid fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typhoid_fever>, meningitis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningitis> and other viral hemorrhagic
fevers may resemble EVD.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Blood samples are
tested for viral RNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA>, viral
antibodies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibodies> or for the virus
itself to confirm the diagnosis.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

Control of outbreaks requires coordinated medical services, alongside a
certain level of community engagement.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> The
medical services include rapid detection of cases of disease, contact
tracing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contact_tracing> of those who
have come into contact with infected individuals, quick access to
laboratory services, proper healthcare for those who are infected, and
proper disposal of the dead through cremation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cremation> or burial.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> ^[6] <#cite_note-6> Samples of body fluids and
tissues from people with the disease should be handled with special
caution.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Prevention includes limiting the
spread of disease from infected animals to humans.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> This may be done by handling potentially infected
bushmeat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bushmeat> only while wearing
protective clothing and by thoroughly cooking it before eating it.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> It also includes wearing proper protective
clothing and washing hands <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washing_hands>
when around a person with the disease.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> No
specific treatment or vaccine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaccine>
for the virus is available, although a number of potential treatments
are being studied.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Supportive efforts,
however, improve outcomes.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> This includes
either oral rehydration therapy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oral_rehydration_therapy> (drinking
slightly sweetened and salty water) or giving intravenous fluids
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intravenous_fluids> as well as treating
symptoms.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

The disease was first identified in 1976 in two simultaneous outbreaks,
one in Nzara <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nzara>, and the other in
Yambuku <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yambuku>, a village near the
Ebola River <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_River> from which the
disease takes its name.^[7] <#cite_note-who2014factsheet-7> EVD
outbreaks <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ebola_outbreaks> occur
intermittently in tropical regions of sub-Saharan Africa
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sub-Saharan_Africa>.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Between 1976 and 2013, the World Health
Organization <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Health_Organization>
reports a total of 24 outbreaks involving 1,716 cases.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> ^[8] <#cite_note-MMWRJune2014-8> The largest
outbreak to date was the epidemic in West Africa
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_epidemic_in_West_Africa>,
which occurred from December 2013 to January 2016 with 28,616 cases and
11,310 deaths.^[9] <#cite_note-08who2016-9> ^[10]
<#cite_note-CDC2014-10> ^[11] <#cite_note-CDCAug2014N-11> It was
declared no longer an emergency on 29 March 2016.^[12]
<#cite_note-who.int-12> Another outbreak in Africa began in May 2017 in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo>.^[13]
<#cite_note-13> ^[14] <#cite_note-14>


Contents

 [hide] 

  * 1 Signs and symptoms <#Signs_and_symptoms>
      o 1.1 Onset <#Onset>
      o 1.2 Bleeding <#Bleeding>
      o 1.3 Recovery and death <#Recovery_and_death>
  * 2 Cause <#Cause>
      o 2.1 Virology <#Virology>
      o 2.2 Transmission <#Transmission>
      o 2.3 Initial case <#Initial_case>
      o 2.4 Reservoir <#Reservoir>
  * 3 Pathophysiology <#Pathophysiology>
      o 3.1 Immune system evasion <#Immune_system_evasion>
  * 4 Diagnosis <#Diagnosis>
      o 4.1 Laboratory testing <#Laboratory_testing>
      o 4.2 Differential diagnosis <#Differential_diagnosis>
  * 5 Prevention <#Prevention>
      o 5.1 Infection control <#Infection_control>
      o 5.2 Putting on protective equipment
        <#Putting_on_protective_equipment>
      o 5.3 Isolation <#Isolation>
      o 5.4 Contact tracing <#Contact_tracing>
  * 6 Management <#Management>
      o 6.1 Standard support <#Standard_support>
      o 6.2 Intensive care <#Intensive_care>
  * 7 Prognosis <#Prognosis>
  * 8 Epidemiology <#Epidemiology>
      o 8.1 1976 <#1976>
          + 8.1.1 Sudan outbreak <#Sudan_outbreak>
          + 8.1.2 Zaire outbreak <#Zaire_outbreak>
      o 8.2 1995 to 2014 <#1995_to_2014>
      o 8.3 2013–2016 West African outbreak
        <#2013–2016_West_African_outbreak>
      o 8.4 2014 spread outside West Africa
        <#2014_spread_outside_West_Africa>
  * 9 Society and culture <#Society_and_culture>
      o 9.1 Weaponization <#Weaponization>
      o 9.2 Literature <#Literature>
  * 10 Other animals <#Other_animals>
      o 10.1 Wild animals <#Wild_animals>
      o 10.2 Domestic animals <#Domestic_animals>
      o 10.3 Reston virus <#Reston_virus>
  * 11 Research <#Research>
      o 11.1 Treatments <#Treatments>
      o 11.2 Vaccines <#Vaccines>
      o 11.3 Diagnostic tests <#Diagnostic_tests>
  * 12 See also <#See_also>
  * 13 References <#References>
  * 14 External links <#External_links>


    Signs and symptoms

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Symptoms_of_ebola.png>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Symptoms_of_ebola.png>
Signs and symptoms of Ebola^[15] <#cite_note-CDC2014S-15>


      Onset

The length of time between exposure to the virus and the development of
symptoms (incubation period
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incubation_period>) is between 2 and 21
days,^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> ^[15] <#cite_note-CDC2014S-15> and
usually between 4 and 10 days.^[16] <#cite_note-Goeijenbier2014-16>
However, recent estimates based on mathematical models predict that
around 5% of cases may take greater than 21 days to develop.^[17]
<#cite_note-17>

Symptoms usually begin with a sudden influenza
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Influenza>-like stage characterized by
feeling tired <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatigue_(medical)>, fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fever>, weakness
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asthenia>, decreased appetite
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anorexia_(symptom)>, muscular pain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myalgia>, joint pain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthralgia>, headache, and sore
throat.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> ^[16] <#cite_note-Goeijenbier2014-16>
^[18] <#cite_note-Gatherer_2014-18> ^[19] <#cite_note-Hun2012-19> The
fever is usually higher than 38.3 °C (101 °F).^[20]
<#cite_note-Hoenen2006-20> This is often followed by vomiting, diarrhea
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diarrhea> and abdominal pain.^[19]
<#cite_note-Hun2012-19> Next, shortness of breath
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shortness_of_breath> and chest pain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chest_pain> may occur, along with
swelling <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edema>, headaches
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headaches> and confusion
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decreased_level_of_consciousness>.^[19]
<#cite_note-Hun2012-19> In about half of the cases, the skin may develop
a maculopapular rash <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maculopapular_rash>,
a flat red area covered with small bumps, 5 to 7 days after symptoms
begin.^[16] <#cite_note-Goeijenbier2014-16> ^[20]
<#cite_note-Hoenen2006-20>


      Bleeding

In some cases, internal and external bleeding may occur.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> This typically begins five to seven days after
the first symptoms.^[21] <#cite_note-urlwhqlibdoc.who.int-21> All
infected people show some decreased blood clotting
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bleeding_disorder>.^[20]
<#cite_note-Hoenen2006-20> Bleeding from mucous membranes or from sites
of needle punctures has been reported in 40–50 percent of cases.^[22]
<#cite_note-22> This may cause vomiting blood
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hematemesis>, coughing up of blood
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hemoptysis>, or blood in stool
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood_in_stool>.^[23] <#cite_note-23>
Bleeding into the skin may create petechiae
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Petechia>, purpura
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purpura>, ecchymoses
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecchymosis> or hematomas
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hematoma> (especially around needle
injection sites).^[24] <#cite_note-Feldmann2011-24> Bleeding into the
whites of the eyes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subconjunctival_hemorrhage> may also
occur. Heavy bleeding is uncommon; if it occurs, it is usually located
within the gastrointestinal tract
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gastrointestinal_tract>.^[20]
<#cite_note-Hoenen2006-20> ^[25] <#cite_note-25>


      Recovery and death

Recovery may begin between 7 and 14 days after first symptoms.^[19]
<#cite_note-Hun2012-19> Death, if it occurs, follows typically 6 to 16
days from first symptoms and is often due to low blood pressure from
fluid loss <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypovolemic_shock>.^[2]
<#cite_note-Ruz2014-2> In general, bleeding often indicates a worse
outcome, and blood loss may result in death.^[18]
<#cite_note-Gatherer_2014-18> People are often in a coma
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coma> near the end of life.^[19]
<#cite_note-Hun2012-19>

Those who survive often have ongoing muscular and joint pain, liver
inflammation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hepatitis>, decreased
hearing, and may have continued tiredness, continued weakness, decreased
appetite, and difficulty returning to pre-illness weight.^[19]
<#cite_note-Hun2012-19> ^[26] <#cite_note-Tosh2014-26> Problems with
vision may develop.^[27] <#cite_note-27>

Additionally, survivors develop antibodies
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibodies> against Ebola that last at
least 10 years, but it is unclear if they are immune to repeated
infections.^[28] <#cite_note-CDC2014QAT-28>


    Cause

EVD in humans is caused by four of five viruses of the genus /Ebolavirus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolavirus>/. The four are Bundibugyo
virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundibugyo_virus> (BDBV), Sudan
virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudan_virus> (SUDV), Taï Forest
virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta%C3%AF_Forest_virus> (TAFV) and
one simply called Ebola virus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus> (EBOV, formerly Zaire Ebola
virus).^[29] <#cite_note-Hoenen2012-29> EBOV, species /Zaire ebolavirus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zaire_ebolavirus>/, is the most dangerous
of the known EVD-causing viruses, and is responsible for the largest
number of outbreaks.^[30] <#cite_note-KuhnArch-30> The fifth virus,
Reston virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reston_virus> (RESTV), is
not thought to cause disease in humans, but has caused disease in other
primates.^[31] <#cite_note-Spickler-31> ^[32] <#cite_note-32> All five
viruses are closely related to marburgviruses
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburgvirus>.^[29]
<#cite_note-Hoenen2012-29>


      Virology

Main articles: /Ebolavirus/ (taxonomic group)
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolavirus> and Ebola virus (specific
virus) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ebola_virus_virion.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ebola_virus_virion.jpg>
Electron micrograph <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron_micrograph>
of an Ebola virus virion <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virion>

Ebolaviruses contain single-stranded, non-infectious RNA
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA> genomes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genome>.^[33] <#cite_note-Fauquet2005-33>
/Ebolavirus/ genomes contain seven genes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene> including 3'-UTR
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_prime_untranslated_region>-/NP/-/VP35/-/VP40/-/GP/-/VP30/-/VP24/-/L/-5'-UTR
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_prime_untranslated_region>.^[24]
<#cite_note-Feldmann2011-24> ^[34] <#cite_note-Stahelin2014-34> The
genomes of the five different ebolaviruses (BDBV, EBOV, RESTV, SUDV and
TAFV) differ in sequence
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nucleic_acid_sequence> and the number and
location of gene overlaps. As with all filoviruses
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filovirus>, ebolavirus virions are
filamentous particles that may appear in the shape of a shepherd's
crook, of a "U" or of a "6," and they may be coiled, toroid or
branched.^[34] <#cite_note-Stahelin2014-34> ^[35] <#cite_note-35> In
general, ebolavirions are 80 nanometers (nm) in width and may be as long
as 14,000 nm.^[36] <#cite_note-Chippaux2014-36>

Their life cycle <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biological_life_cycle>
is thought to begin with a virion attaching to specific cell-surface
receptors <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Receptor_(biochemistry)> such
as C-type lectins <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C-type_lectin>, DC-SIGN
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC-SIGN>, or integrins
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrin>, which is followed by fusion of
the viral envelope with cellular membranes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinocytosis>.^[37]
<#cite_note-Misasi2014-37> The virions taken up by the cell then travel
to acidic endosomes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endosome> and
lysosomes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lysosome> where the viral
envelope glycoprotein GP is cleaved.^[37] <#cite_note-Misasi2014-37>
This processing appears to allow the virus to bind to cellular proteins
enabling it to fuse with internal cellular membranes and release the
viral nucleocapsid <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nucleocapsid>.^[37]
<#cite_note-Misasi2014-37> The /Ebolavirus/ structural glycoprotein
(known as GP1,2) is responsible for the virus' ability to bind to and
infect targeted cells.^[38] <#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> The viral RNA
polymerase <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA-dependent_RNA_polymerase>,
encoded by the /L/ gene, partially uncoats the nucleocapsid and
transcribes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcription_(genetics)> the
genes into positive-strand mRNAs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MRNA>,
which are then translated
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translation_(biology)> into structural
and nonstructural proteins. The most abundant protein produced is the
nucleoprotein, whose concentration in the host cell determines when L
switches from gene transcription to genome replication. Replication of
the viral genome results in full-length, positive-strand antigenomes
that are, in turn, transcribed into genome copies of negative-strand
virus progeny.^[39] <#cite_note-Olejnik2011-39> Newly synthesized
structural proteins and genomes self-assemble and accumulate near the
inside of the cell membrane
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cell_membrane>. Virions bud
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Budding> off from the cell, gaining their
envelopes from the cellular membrane from which they bud. The mature
progeny particles then infect other cells to repeat the cycle. The
genetics of the Ebola virus are difficult to study because of EBOV's
virulent characteristics.^[40] <#cite_note-Feldmann2005-40>


      Transmission

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:EbolaCycle.png>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:EbolaCycle.png>
Life cycles of the /Ebolavirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolavirus>/

It is believed that between people, Ebola disease spreads only by direct
contact with the blood or other body fluids
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Body_fluid> of a person who has developed
symptoms of the disease.^[41] <#cite_note-Funk2014-41> ^[42]
<#cite_note-42> ^[43] <#cite_note-Drazen2014-43> Body fluids that may
contain Ebola viruses include saliva, mucus, vomit, feces, sweat, tears,
breast milk, urine and semen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semen>.^[4]
<#cite_note-cdc9months-4> ^[28] <#cite_note-CDC2014QAT-28> The WHO
states that only people who are very sick are able to spread Ebola
disease in saliva <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saliva>, and whole
virus has not been reported to be transmitted through sweat. Most people
spread the virus through blood, feces
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feces> and vomit.^[44] <#cite_note-44>
Entry points for the virus include the nose, mouth, eyes, open wounds,
cuts and abrasions.^[28] <#cite_note-CDC2014QAT-28> Ebola may be spread
through large droplets <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Droplet>; however,
this is believed to occur only when a person is very sick.^[45]
<#cite_note-CDCNOV2014-45> This contamination can happen if a person is
splashed with droplets.^[45] <#cite_note-CDCNOV2014-45> Contact with
surfaces or objects contaminated by the virus, particularly needles and
syringes, may also transmit the infection.^[46] <#cite_note-CDC2014T-46>
^[47] <#cite_note-Chowell2014-47> The virus is able to survive on
objects for a few hours in a dried state, and can survive for a few days
within body fluids outside of a person.^[28] <#cite_note-CDC2014QAT-28>
^[48] <#cite_note-Ost2015-48>

The Ebola virus may be able to persist for more than 3 months in the
semen after recovery, which could lead to infections via sexual
intercourse <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexual_intercourse>.^[4]
<#cite_note-cdc9months-4> ^[49] <#cite_note-49> ^[50] <#cite_note-50>
Virus persistence in semen for over a year has been recorded in a
national screening programme.^[51] <#cite_note-51> Ebola may also occur
in the breast milk of women after recovery, and it is not known when it
is safe to breastfeed again.^[5] <#cite_note-CDCBreast2014-5> The virus
was also found in the eye of one patient in 2014, two months after it
was cleared from his blood.^[52] <#cite_note-52> Otherwise, people who
have recovered are not infectious.^[46] <#cite_note-CDC2014T-46>

The potential for widespread infections
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pandemics> in countries with medical
systems capable of observing correct medical isolation procedures is
considered low.^[53] <#cite_note-CDCPress2014-53> Usually when someone
has symptoms of the disease, they are unable to travel without
assistance.^[54] <#cite_note-WHO2014T-54>

Dead bodies remain infectious; thus, people handling human remains in
practices such as traditional burial rituals or more modern processes
such as embalming <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embalming> are at
risk.^[53] <#cite_note-CDCPress2014-53> 69% of the cases of Ebola
infections in Guinea during the 2014 outbreak are believed to have been
contracted via unprotected (or unsuitably protected) contact with
infected corpses during certain Guinean burial rituals.^[55]
<#cite_note-Chan2014-55> ^[56] <#cite_note-56>

Health-care workers treating people with Ebola are at greatest risk of
infection.^[46] <#cite_note-CDC2014T-46> The risk increases when they do
not have appropriate protective clothing such as masks, gowns, gloves
and eye protection; do not wear it properly; or handle contaminated
clothing incorrectly.^[46] <#cite_note-CDC2014T-46> This risk is
particularly common in parts of Africa where the disease mostly occurs
and health systems function poorly.^[57] <#cite_note-57> There has been
transmission in hospitals <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nosocomial> in
some African countries that reuse hypodermic needles.^[58]
<#cite_note-58> ^[59] <#cite_note-59> Some health-care centers caring
for people with the disease do not have running water.^[60]
<#cite_note-CDCQA2014-60> In the United States the spread to two medical
workers treating infected patients prompted criticism of inadequate
training and procedures.^[61] <#cite_note-NBC-ebolaTX-61>

Human-to-human transmission of EBOV through the air has not been
reported to occur during EVD outbreaks,^[3] <#cite_note-WHOAir2014-3>
and airborne transmission has only been demonstrated in very strict
laboratory conditions, and then only from pigs to primates
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primates>, but not from primates to
primates.^[41] <#cite_note-Funk2014-41> ^[47]
<#cite_note-Chowell2014-47> Spread of EBOV by water, or food other than
bushmeat, has not been observed.^[46] <#cite_note-CDC2014T-46> ^[47]
<#cite_note-Chowell2014-47> No spread by mosquitos or other insects has
been reported.^[46] <#cite_note-CDC2014T-46> Other possible methods of
transmission are being studied.^[48] <#cite_note-Ost2015-48>

The apparent lack of airborne transmission among humans is believed to
be due to low levels of the virus in the lungs
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lungs> and other parts of the respiratory
system <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Respiratory_system> of primates,
insufficient to cause new infections.^[62] <#cite_note-62> A number of
studies examining airborne transmission broadly concluded that
transmission from pigs to primates could happen without direct contact
because, unlike humans and primates, pigs with EVD get very high
ebolavirus concentrations in their lungs, and not their
bloodstream.^[63] <#cite_note-virology1-63> Therefore, pigs with EVD can
spread the disease through droplets in the air or on the ground when
they sneeze or cough.^[64] <#cite_note-sb1-64> By contrast, humans and
other primates accumulate the virus throughout their body and
specifically in their blood, but not very much in their lungs.^[64]
<#cite_note-sb1-64> It is believed that this is the reason researchers
have observed pig to primate transmission without physical contact, but
no evidence has been found of primates being infected without actual
contact, even in experiments where infected and uninfected primates
shared the same air.^[63] <#cite_note-virology1-63> ^[64]
<#cite_note-sb1-64>


      Initial case

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bushmeat_-_Buschfleisch_Ghana.JPG>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bushmeat_-_Buschfleisch_Ghana.JPG>
Bushmeat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bushmeat> being prepared for
cooking in Ghana <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghana>. In Africa, wild
animals including fruit bats are hunted for food and are referred to as
bushmeat.^[65] <#cite_note-CDC2014Bush-65> ^[66] <#cite_note-66> In
equatorial Africa, human consumption of bushmeat has been linked to
animal-to-human transmission of diseases, including Ebola.^[67]
<#cite_note-urlAfrican_monkey_meat_that_could_be_behind_the_next_HIV_–_Health_News_–_Health_&_Families_–_The_Independent-67>


Although it is not entirely clear how Ebola initially spreads from
animals to humans, the spread is believed to involve direct contact with
an infected wild animal or fruit bat.^[46] <#cite_note-CDC2014T-46>
Besides bats, other wild animals sometimes infected with EBOV include
several monkey species, chimpanzees, gorillas, baboons and duikers
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duikers>.^[68]
<#cite_note-urlEbolavirus_–_Pathogen_Safety_Data_Sheets-68>

Animals may become infected when they eat fruit partially eaten by bats
carrying the virus.^[69] <#cite_note-Gon2007-69> Fruit production,
animal behavior and other factors may trigger outbreaks among animal
populations.^[69] <#cite_note-Gon2007-69>

Evidence indicates that both domestic dogs and pigs can also be infected
with EBOV.^[70] <#cite_note-Weingartl_2013-70> Dogs do not appear to
develop symptoms when they carry the virus, and pigs appear to be able
to transmit the virus to at least some primates.^[70]
<#cite_note-Weingartl_2013-70> Although some dogs in an area in which a
human outbreak occurred had antibodies to EBOV, it is unclear whether
they played a role in spreading the disease to people.^[70]
<#cite_note-Weingartl_2013-70>


      Reservoir

The natural reservoir <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_reservoir>
for Ebola has yet to be confirmed; however, bats
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bat> are considered to be the most likely
candidate species.^[47] <#cite_note-Chowell2014-47> Three types of fruit
bats (/Hypsignathus monstrosus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypsignathus_monstrosus>/, /Epomops
franqueti <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epomops_franqueti>/ and
/Myonycteris torquata
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myonycteris_torquata>/) were found to
possibly carry the virus without getting sick.^[71] <#cite_note-71> As
of 2013^[update]
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&action=edit>
, whether other animals are involved in its spread is not known.^[70]
<#cite_note-Weingartl_2013-70> Plants, arthropods
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthropod> and birds have also been
considered possible viral reservoirs.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

Bats were known to roost in the cotton factory in which the first cases
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Index_case> of the 1976 and 1979
outbreaks were observed, and they have also been implicated in Marburg
virus infections in 1975 and 1980.^[72] <#cite_note-Pourrut2005-72> Of
24 plant and 19 vertebrate species experimentally inoculated with EBOV,
only bats became infected.^[73] <#cite_note-73> The bats displayed no
clinical signs of disease, which is considered evidence that these bats
are a reservoir species of EBOV. In a 2002–2003 survey of 1,030 animals
including 679 bats from Gabon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gabon> and
the Republic of the Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_of_the_Congo>, 13 fruit bats
were found to contain EBOV RNA.^[74] <#cite_note-74> Antibodies against
Zaire and Reston viruses have been found in fruit bats in Bangladesh
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bangladesh>, suggesting that these bats
are also potential hosts of the virus and that the filoviruses are
present in Asia.^[75] <#cite_note-Olival2013-75>

Between 1976 and 1998, in 30,000 mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians
and arthropods <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthropod> sampled from
regions of EBOV outbreaks, no Ebola virus was detected apart from some
genetic traces found in six rodents (belonging to the species /Mus
setulosus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mus_setulosus>/ and /Praomys
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Praomys>/) and one shrew
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shrew> (/Sylvisorex ollula
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sylvisorex_ollula>/) collected from the
Central African Republic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_African_Republic>.^[72]
<#cite_note-Pourrut2005-72> ^[76] <#cite_note-Morvan1999-76> However,
further research efforts have not confirmed rodents as a reservoir.^[77]
<#cite_note-Groseth2007-77> Traces of EBOV were detected in the
carcasses of gorillas and chimpanzees during outbreaks in 2001 and 2003,
which later became the source of human infections. However, the high
rates of death in these species resulting from EBOV infection make it
unlikely that these species represent a natural reservoir for the
virus.^[72] <#cite_note-Pourrut2005-72>


    Pathophysiology

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ebola_Pathenogensis_path.svg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ebola_Pathenogensis_path.svg>
Pathogenesis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pathogenesis> schematic

Similar to other filoviruses, EBOV replicates very efficiently in many
cells
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_distinct_cell_types_in_the_adult_human_body>,
producing large amounts of virus in monocytes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monocyte>, macrophages
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macrophage>, dendritic cells
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dendritic_cell> and other cells including
liver cells <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hepatocyte>, fibroblasts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibroblast>, and adrenal gland cells
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adrenal_gland>.^[78]
<#cite_note-Ansari2014-78> Viral replication triggers the release of
high levels of inflammatory chemical signals
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cytokine_storm> and leads to a septic
state <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sepsis>.^[26] <#cite_note-Tosh2014-26>

EBOV is thought to infect humans through contact with mucous membranes
or through skin breaks.^[41] <#cite_note-Funk2014-41> Once infected,
endothelial cells <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endothelial_cells>
(cells lining the inside of blood vessels), liver cells, and several
types of immune cells such as macrophages, monocytes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mononuclear_phagocyte_system>, and
dendritic cells are the main targets of infection.^[41]
<#cite_note-Funk2014-41> Following infection with the virus, the immune
cells carry the virus to nearby lymph nodes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymph_node> where further reproduction of
the virus takes place.^[41] <#cite_note-Funk2014-41> From there, the
virus can enter the bloodstream and lymphatic system
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymphatic_system> and spread throughout
the body.^[41] <#cite_note-Funk2014-41> Macrophages are the first cells
infected with the virus, and this infection results in programmed cell
death <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apoptosis>.^[36]
<#cite_note-Chippaux2014-36> Other types of white blood cells
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_blood_cell>, such as lymphocytes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymphocyte>, also undergo programmed cell
death leading to an abnormally low concentration of lymphocytes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymphocytopenia> in the blood.^[41]
<#cite_note-Funk2014-41> This contributes to the weakened immune
response seen in those infected with EBOV.^[41] <#cite_note-Funk2014-41>

Endothelial cells may be infected within three days after exposure to
the virus.^[36] <#cite_note-Chippaux2014-36> The breakdown of
endothelial cells leading to blood vessel
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood_vessel> injury can be attributed to
EBOV glycoproteins <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glycoprotein>. This
damage occurs due to the synthesis of Ebola virus glycoprotein (GP),
which reduces the availability of specific integrins
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrin> responsible for cell adhesion
to the intercellular structure and causes liver damage, leading to
improper clotting <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coagulopathy>. The
widespread bleeding <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bleeding> that occurs
in affected people causes swelling <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edema>
and shock due to loss of blood volume
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypovolemic_shock>.^[79]
<#cite_note-isbn0-7910-8505-8-79> The dysfunction in bleeding and
clotting
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disseminated_intravascular_coagulation>
commonly seen in EVD has been attributed to increased activation of the
extrinsic pathway <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tissue_factor_pathway>
of the coagulation cascade due to excessive tissue factor
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tissue_factor> production by macrophages
and monocytes.^[16] <#cite_note-Goeijenbier2014-16>

After infection, a secreted glycoprotein
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glycoprotein>, small soluble glycoprotein
(sGP or GP) is synthesized. EBOV replication overwhelms protein
synthesis of infected cells and the host immune defenses. The GP forms a
trimeric complex <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trimer_(biochemistry)>,
which tethers the virus to the endothelial cells. The sGP forms a
dimeric protein <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protein_dimer> that
interferes with the signaling of neutrophils
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutrophils>, another type of white blood
cell, which enables the virus to evade the immune system by inhibiting
early steps of neutrophil activation. The presence of viral particles
and the cell damage resulting from viruses budding out of the cell
causes the release of chemical signals
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cytokines> (such as TNF-α
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tumor_necrosis_factor-alpha>, IL-6
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interleukin_6> and IL-8
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interleukin_8>), which are molecular
signals for fever and inflammation.^[/citation needed
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/]


      Immune system evasion

Filoviral infection also interferes with proper functioning of the
innate immune system
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Innate_immune_system>.^[37]
<#cite_note-Misasi2014-37> ^[39] <#cite_note-Olejnik2011-39> EBOV
proteins blunt the human immune system's response to viral infections by
interfering with the cells' ability to produce and respond to interferon
proteins such as interferon-alpha
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interferon-alpha>, interferon-beta
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interferon-beta>, and interferon gamma
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interferon_gamma>.^[38]
<#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> ^[80] <#cite_note-Ramanan2011-80>

The VP24 and VP35 structural proteins of EBOV play a key role in this
interference. When a cell is infected with EBOV, receptors located in
the cell's cytosol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cytosol> (such as
RIG-I <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RIG-I> and MDA5
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MDA5>) or outside of the cytosol (such as
Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toll-like_receptor_3>, TLR7
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toll-like_receptor_7>, TLR8
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toll-like_receptor_8> and TLR9
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toll-like_receptor_9>), recognize
infectious molecules
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pathogen-associated_molecular_pattern>
associated with the virus.^[38] <#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> On TLR
activation, proteins including interferon regulatory factor 3
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interferon_Regulatory_Factor_3> and
interferon regulatory factor 7
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interferon_regulatory_factor-7> trigger a
signaling cascade that leads to the expression of type 1 interferons
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_1_interferon>.^[38]
<#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> The type 1 interferons are then released and
bind to the IFNAR1 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IFNAR1> and IFNAR2
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IFNAR2> receptors expressed on the
surface of a neighboring cell.^[38] <#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> Once
interferon has bound to its receptors on the neighboring cell, the
signaling proteins STAT1 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STAT1> and STAT2
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STAT2> are activated and move to the
cell's nucleus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cell_nucleus>.^[38]
<#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> This triggers the expression of
interferon-stimulated genes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interferome>,
which code for proteins with antiviral properties.^[38]
<#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> EBOV's V24 protein blocks the production of
these antiviral proteins by preventing the STAT1 signaling protein in
the neighboring cell from entering the nucleus.^[38]
<#cite_note-Kuhl2012-38> The VP35 protein directly inhibits the
production of interferon-beta.^[80] <#cite_note-Ramanan2011-80> By
inhibiting these immune responses, EBOV may quickly spread throughout
the body.^[36] <#cite_note-Chippaux2014-36>


    Diagnosis

When EVD is suspected in a person, his or her travel and work history,
along with an exposure to wildlife, are important factors to consider
with respect to further diagnostic efforts.


      Laboratory testing

Possible non-specific laboratory indicators of EVD include a low
platelet count <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrombocytopenia>; an
initially decreased white blood cell count
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leukopenia> followed by an increased
white blood cell count <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leukocytosis>;
elevated levels of the liver enzymes alanine aminotransferase
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alanine_aminotransferase> (ALT) and
aspartate aminotransferase
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspartate_aminotransferase> (AST); and
abnormalities in blood clotting often consistent with disseminated
intravascular coagulation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disseminated_intravascular_coagulation>
(DIC) such as a prolonged prothrombin time
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prothrombin_time>, partial thromboplastin
time <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partial_thromboplastin_time>, and
bleeding time <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bleeding_time>.^[81]
<#cite_note-Kortepeter2011-81> Filovirions, such as EBOV, may be
identified by their unique filamentous shapes in cell cultures examined
with electron microscopy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron_microscopy>, but this method
cannot distinguish the various filoviruses.^[82]
<#cite_note-Geisbert1995-82>

The specific diagnosis of EVD is confirmed by isolating the virus,
detecting its RNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA> or proteins, or
detecting antibodies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibodies> against
the virus in a person's blood. Isolating the virus by cell culture
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cell_culture>, detecting the viral RNA by
polymerase chain reaction
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymerase_chain_reaction> (PCR)^[16]
<#cite_note-Goeijenbier2014-16> and detecting proteins by enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enzyme-linked_immunosorbent_assay>
(ELISA) are methods best used in the early stages of the disease and
also for detecting the virus in human remains. Detecting antibodies
against the virus is most reliable in the later stages of the disease
and in those who recover.^[83] <#cite_note-CDC2014Diag-83> IgM
antibodies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunoglobulin_M> are
detectable two days after symptom onset and IgG antibodies
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunoglobulin_G> can be detected 6 to 18
days after symptom onset.^[16] <#cite_note-Goeijenbier2014-16> During an
outbreak, isolation of the virus via cell culture methods is often not
feasible. In field or mobile hospitals, the most common and sensitive
diagnostic methods are real-time PCR
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-time_PCR> and ELISA.^[84]
<#cite_note-Grolla2005-84> In 2014, with new mobile testing facilities
deployed in parts of Liberia, test results were obtained 3–5 hours after
sample submission.^[85] <#cite_note-85> In 2015 a rapid antigen test
which gives results in 15 minutes was approved for use by WHO. It is
able to confirm Ebola in 92% of those affected and rule it out in 85% of
those not affected.^[86] <#cite_note-WHO2015Test-86>


      Differential diagnosis

Early symptoms of EVD may be similar to those of other diseases common
in Africa, including malaria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaria> and
dengue fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dengue_fever>.^[18]
<#cite_note-Gatherer_2014-18> The symptoms are also similar to those of
other viral hemorrhagic fevers such as Marburg virus disease
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus_disease>.^[87]
<#cite_note-Harrison-87>

The complete differential diagnosis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differential_diagnosis> is extensive and
requires consideration of many other infectious diseases such as typhoid
fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typhoid_fever>, shigellosis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shigellosis>, rickettsial diseases
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rickettsia>, cholera
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cholera>, sepsis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sepsis>, borreliosis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Borreliosis>, EHEC enteritis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verotoxin-producing_Escherichia_coli>,
leptospirosis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leptospirosis>, scrub
typhus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrub_typhus>, plague
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plague_(disease)>, Q fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Q_fever>, candidiasis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candidiasis>, histoplasmosis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Histoplasmosis>, trypanosomiasis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trypanosomiasis>, visceral
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visceral> leishmaniasis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leishmaniasis>, measles
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Measles>, and viral hepatitis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hepatitis> among others.^[88]
<#cite_note-88>

Non-infectious diseases that may result in symptoms similar to those of
EVD include acute promyelocytic leukemia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acute_promyelocytic_leukemia>, hemolytic
uremic syndrome
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hemolytic_uremic_syndrome>, snake
envenomation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_envenomation>,
clotting factor <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coagulation>
deficiencies/platelet disorders, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrombotic_thrombocytopenic_purpura>,
hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hereditary_hemorrhagic_telangiectasia>,
Kawasaki disease <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kawasaki_disease>, and
warfarin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warfarin> poisoning.^[84]
<#cite_note-Grolla2005-84> ^[89] <#cite_note-Gear1989-89> ^[90]
<#cite_note-Gear1978-90> ^[91] <#cite_note-Bogomolov1998-91>


    Prevention

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:VHFisolation.png>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:VHFisolation.png>
VHF isolation precautions poster
Main article: Prevention of viral hemorrhagic fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prevention_of_viral_hemorrhagic_fever>


      Infection control

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Donna_Wood,_Nurse_and_NHS_Ebola_volunteer_(15652582937).jpg>


<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Donna_Wood,_Nurse_and_NHS_Ebola_volunteer_(15652582937).jpg>
British woman wearing protective gear

People who care for those infected with Ebola should wear protective
clothing including masks, gloves, gowns and goggles.^[92]
<#cite_note-CDC2014P-92> The US Centers for Disease Control
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centers_for_Disease_Control> (CDC)
recommend that the protective gear leaves no skin exposed.^[93]
<#cite_note-Oct2014CDC-93> These measures are also recommended for those
who may handle objects contaminated by an infected person's body
fluids.^[94] <#cite_note-CDCBook1998-94> In 2014, the CDC began
recommending that medical personnel receive training on the proper
suit-up and removal of personal protective equipment
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_protective_equipment> (PPE); in
addition, a designated person, appropriately trained in biosafety,
should be watching each step of these procedures to ensure they are done
correctly.^[93] <#cite_note-Oct2014CDC-93> In Sierra Leone, the typical
training period for the use of such safety equipment lasts approximately
12 days.^[95] <#cite_note-95>

The infected person should be in barrier-isolation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isolation_(health_care)> from other
people.^[92] <#cite_note-CDC2014P-92> All equipment, medical waste,
patient waste and surfaces that may have come into contact with body
fluids need to be disinfected
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disinfection>.^[94]
<#cite_note-CDCBook1998-94> During the 2014 outbreak, kits were put
together to help families treat Ebola disease in their homes, which
include protective clothing as well as chlorine powder
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chlorine_powder> and other cleaning
supplies.^[96] <#cite_note-96> Education of those who provide care in
these techniques, and the provision of such barrier-separation supplies
has been a priority of Doctors Without Borders
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doctors_Without_Borders>.^[97]
<#cite_note-97>

Ebolaviruses can be eliminated
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sterilization_(microbiology)> with heat
(heating for 30 to 60 minutes at 60 °C or boiling for 5 minutes). To
disinfect <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disinfectants> surfaces, some
lipid solvents such as some alcohol-based products, detergents, sodium
hypochlorite (bleach) or calcium hypochlorite
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calcium_hypochlorite> (bleaching powder),
and other suitable disinfectants may be used at appropriate
concentrations.^[68]
<#cite_note-urlEbolavirus_–_Pathogen_Safety_Data_Sheets-68> ^[98]
<#cite_note-Infection_Guidance-98>

Education of the general public about the risk factors for Ebola
infection and of the protective measures individuals may take to prevent
infection is recommended by the World Health Organization
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Health_Organization>.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> These measures include avoiding direct contact
with infected people and regular hand washing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hand_washing> using soap and water.^[99]
<#cite_note-99>

Bushmeat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bushmeat>, an important source
of protein in the diet of some Africans, should be handled and prepared
with appropriate protective clothing and thoroughly cooked before
consumption.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> Some research suggests that an
outbreak of Ebola disease in the wild animals used for consumption may
result in a corresponding human outbreak. Since 2003, such animal
outbreaks have been monitored to predict and prevent Ebola outbreaks in
humans.^[100] <#cite_note-Rouquet_2005-100>

If a person with Ebola disease dies, direct contact with the body should
be avoided.^[92] <#cite_note-CDC2014P-92> Certain burial rituals
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burial_ritual>, which may have included
making various direct contacts with a dead body, require reformulation
such that they consistently maintain a proper protective barrier between
the dead body and the living.^[101] <#cite_note-CDC1998-101> ^[102]
<#cite_note-url_www.who.int_burial-102> ^[103] <#cite_note-103> Social
anthropologists may help find alternatives to traditional rules for
burials.^[104] <#cite_note-104>

Transportation crews are instructed to follow a certain isolation
procedure, should anyone exhibit symptoms resembling EVD.^[105]
<#cite_note-urlWHO_|_West_Africa_–_Ebola_virus_disease-105> As of August
2014, the WHO does not consider travel bans to be useful in decreasing
spread of the disease.^[54] <#cite_note-WHO2014T-54> In October 2014,
the CDC defined four risk levels used to determine the level of 21-day
monitoring for symptoms and restrictions on public activities.^[106]
<#cite_note-CDC_monitor_movement-106> In the United States, the CDC
recommends that restrictions on public activity, including travel
restrictions, are not required for the following defined risk
levels:^[106] <#cite_note-CDC_monitor_movement-106>

  * having been in a country with widespread Ebola disease transmission
    and having no known exposure (low risk); or having been in that
    country more than 21 days ago (no risk)
  * encounter with a person showing symptoms; but not within 3 feet of
    the person with Ebola without wearing PPE; and no direct contact of
    body fluids
  * having had brief skin contact with a person showing symptoms of
    Ebola disease when the person was believed to be not very contagious
    (low risk)
  * in countries without widespread Ebola disease transmission: direct
    contact with a person showing symptoms of the disease while wearing
    PPE (low risk)
  * contact with a person with Ebola disease before the person was
    showing symptoms (no risk).

The CDC recommends monitoring for the symptoms of Ebola disease for
those both at "low risk" and at higher risk.^[106]
<#cite_note-CDC_monitor_movement-106>

In laboratories where diagnostic testing is carried out, biosafety level
4-equivalent containment <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biosafety_level>
is required.^[107] <#cite_note-OSHA-107> Laboratory researchers must be
properly trained in BSL-4 practices and wear proper PPE.^[107]
<#cite_note-OSHA-107>


      Putting on protective equipment

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Introduction CDC01.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/bc/Donning_PPE-_Introduction_CDC01.webm>

    Introduction

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Engage Trained Observer CDC02.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/60/Donning_PPE-_Engage_Trained_Observer_CDC02.webm>

    Trained observer

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Remove Personal Clothing and Items CDC03.webmPlay
    media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d0/Donning_PPE-_Remove_Personal_Clothing_and_Items_CDC03.webm>

    Removing own clothing

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Inspect PPE Prior to Donning CDC04.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8a/Donning_PPE-_Inspect_PPE_Prior_to_Donning_CDC04.webm>

    Examining equipment

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Perform Hand Hygiene CDC05.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8c/Donning_PPE-_Perform_Hand_Hygiene_CDC05.webm>

    Hand cleaning

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on Boot Covers CDC06.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/10/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_Boot_Covers_CDC06.webm>

    Boot covers

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on Inner Gloves CDC07.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/da/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_Inner_Gloves_CDC07.webm>

    Inner gloves

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on Coverall CDC08.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/fa/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_Coverall_CDC08.webm>

    Coverall

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on N95 Respirator CDC09.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/64/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_N95_Respirator_CDC09.webm>

    N95 respirator

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on Surgical Hood CDC10.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0d/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_Surgical_Hood_CDC10.webm>

    Surgical hood

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on Outer Apron (if used) CDC11.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7d/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_Outer_Apron_%28if_used%29_CDC11.webm>

    Outer apron

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on Outer Gloves CDC12.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/95/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_Outer_Gloves_CDC12.webm>

    Outer gloves

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Put on Face Shield CDC13.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/66/Donning_PPE-_Put_on_Face_Shield_CDC13.webm>

    Face shield

  *
    File:Donning PPE- Verify CDC14.webmPlay media
    <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/94/Donning_PPE-_Verify_CDC14.webm>

    Verification


      Isolation

Isolation refers to separating those who are sick from those who are
not. Quarantine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quarantine> refers to
separating those who may have been exposed to a disease until they
either show signs of the disease or are no longer at risk.^[108]
<#cite_note-108> Quarantine, also known as enforced isolation, is
usually effective in decreasing spread.^[109] <#cite_note-109> ^[110]
<#cite_note-pmid16597410-110> Governments often quarantine areas where
the disease is occurring or individuals who may transmit the disease
outside of an initial area.^[111] <#cite_note-111> In the United States,
the law allows quarantine of those infected with ebolaviruses.^[112]
<#cite_note-112>


      Contact tracing

Contact tracing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contact_tracing> is
considered important to contain an outbreak. It involves finding
everyone who had close contact with infected individuals and watching
for signs of illness for 21 days. If any of these contacts comes down
with the disease, they should be isolated, tested and treated. Then the
process is repeated by tracing the contacts' contacts.^[113]
<#cite_note-113> ^[114] <#cite_note-114>


    Management

No specific treatment is currently approved.^[115]
<#cite_note-Choi2013-115> The Food and Drug Administration
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_and_Drug_Administration> (FDA)
advises people to be careful of advertisements making unverified or
fraudulent claims of benefits supposedly gained from various anti-Ebola
products.^[116] <#cite_note-FDA2014R-116> ^[117] <#cite_note-117>


      Standard support

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ebola_outbreak_in_Gulu_Municipal_Hospital.jpg>


<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ebola_outbreak_in_Gulu_Municipal_Hospital.jpg>
A hospital isolation ward in Gulu, Uganda
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulu>, during the October 2000 outbreak

Treatment is primarily supportive
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palliative_care> in nature.^[118]
<#cite_note-Clark_2012-118> Early supportive care with rehydration and
symptomatic treatment improves survival.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
Rehydration may be via the oral
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oral_rehydration_therapy> or by
intravenous <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intravenous_therapy>
route.^[118] <#cite_note-Clark_2012-118> These measures may include
management of pain <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pain_management>,
nausea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antiemetic>, fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antipyretic> and anxiety
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anxiolytic>.^[118]
<#cite_note-Clark_2012-118> The World Health Organization recommends
avoiding the use of aspirin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspirin> or
ibuprofen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibuprofen> for pain due to the
bleeding risk associated with use of these medications.^[119]
<#cite_note-119>

Blood products such as packed red blood cells
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Packed_red_blood_cells>, platelets
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platelet> or fresh frozen plasma
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fresh_frozen_plasma> may also be
used.^[118] <#cite_note-Clark_2012-118> Other regulators of coagulation
have also been tried including heparin
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heparin> in an effort to prevent
disseminated intravascular coagulation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disseminated_intravascular_coagulation>
and clotting factors <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coagulation_factors>
to decrease bleeding.^[118] <#cite_note-Clark_2012-118> Antimalarial
medications <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antimalarial_medication> and
antibiotics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibiotics> are often used
before the diagnosis is confirmed,^[118] <#cite_note-Clark_2012-118>
though there is no evidence to suggest such treatment helps. A number of
experimental treatments are being studied
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_treatment_research>.

If hospital care is not possible, the World Health Organization has
guidelines for care at home that have been relatively successful. In
such situations, recommendations include using towels soaked in bleach
solutions when moving infected people or bodies and applying bleach on
stains. It is also recommended that the caregivers wash hands with
bleach solutions and cover their mouth and nose with a cloth.^[120]
<#cite_note-120>


      Intensive care

Intensive care <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intensive_care> is often
used in the developed world.^[24] <#cite_note-Feldmann2011-24> This may
include maintaining blood volume and electrolytes (salts) balance as
well as treating any bacterial infections that may develop.^[24]
<#cite_note-Feldmann2011-24> Dialysis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hemodialysis> may be needed for kidney
failure <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kidney_failure>, and
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extracorporeal_membrane_oxygenation> may
be used for lung dysfunction.^[24] <#cite_note-Feldmann2011-24>


    Prognosis

EVD has a high risk of death in those infected
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Case_fatality_rate> which varies between
25 percent and 90 percent of those infected.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>
^[121] <#cite_note-Elsevier/Academic_Press-121> As of September
2014^[update]
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&action=edit>
, the average risk of death among those infected is 50 percent.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> The highest risk of death was 90 percent in the
2002–2003 Republic of the Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_of_the_Congo> outbreak.^[122]
<#cite_note-122>

Death, if it occurs, follows typically six to sixteen days after
symptoms appear and is often due to low blood pressure from fluid loss
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypovolemic_shock>.^[2]
<#cite_note-Ruz2014-2> Early supportive care to prevent dehydration may
reduce the risk of death.^[123] <#cite_note-123>

If an infected person survives, recovery may be quick and complete.
Prolonged cases are often complicated by the occurrence of long-term
problems, such as inflammation of the testicles
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orchitis>, joint pains
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthralgia>, muscular pain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myalgia>, skin peeling
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desquamation>, or hair loss
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alopecia>.^[16]
<#cite_note-Goeijenbier2014-16> Eye symptoms, such as light sensitivity
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photophobia>, excess tearing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperlacrimation>, and vision loss
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vision_loss> have been described.^[124]
<#cite_note-124>

Ebola can stay in some body parts like the eyes,^[125]
<#cite_note-VarkeyShantha2015-125> breasts, and testicles after
infection.^[4] <#cite_note-cdc9months-4> ^[126]
<#cite_note-MackayArden2015-126> Sexual transmission after recovery has
been suspected.^[127] <#cite_note-127> ^[128] <#cite_note-128> If sexual
transmission occurs following recovery it is believed to be a rare
event.^[129] <#cite_note-129> One case of a condition similar to
meningitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningitis> has been reported
many months after recovery as of Oct. 2015.^[130] <#cite_note-130>

A study of 44 survivors of the Ebola virus in Sierra Leone
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sierra_Leone> reported musculoskeletal
pain in 70%, headache in 48% and eye problems in 14%.^[131]
<#cite_note-131>


    Epidemiology

For more about specific outbreaks, see List of Ebola outbreaks
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ebola_outbreaks>.

The disease typically occurs in outbreaks in tropical regions of
Sub-Saharan Africa
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sub-Saharan_Africa>.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> From 1976 (when it was first identified) through
2013, the World Health Organization reported 1,716 confirmed cases.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1> ^[8] <#cite_note-MMWRJune2014-8> The largest
outbreak to date was the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_epidemic_in_West_Africa>,
which had caused a large number of deaths in Guinea
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guinea>, Sierra Leone
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sierra_Leone>, and Liberia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberia>.^[10] <#cite_note-CDC2014-10>
^[11] <#cite_note-CDCAug2014N-11>


      1976


        Sudan outbreak

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Cotton_Factory_in_Nzara,_South_Sudan.jpg>


<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Cotton_Factory_in_Nzara,_South_Sudan.jpg>
Cotton factory in Nzara, South Sudan where the first outbreak occurred

The first known outbreak of EVD was identified only after the fact,
occurring between June and November 1976 in Nzara, South Sudan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nzara,_South_Sudan>^[29]
<#cite_note-Hoenen2012-29> ^[132]
<#cite_note-Peterson_AT,_Bauer_JT,_Mills_JN_2004_40–47-132> (then part
of Sudan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudan>), and was caused by Sudan
virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudan_virus> (SUDV). The Sudan
outbreak infected 284 people and killed 151. The first identifiable case
in Sudan occurred on 27 June in a storekeeper in a cotton factory in
Nzara <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nzara>, who was hospitalized on 30
June and died on 6 July.^[24] <#cite_note-Feldmann2011-24> ^[133]
<#cite_note-who's_first_encounter-133> Although the WHO medical staff
involved in the Sudan outbreak were aware that they were dealing with a
heretofore unknown disease, the actual "positive identification" process
and the naming of the virus did not occur until some months later in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo>.^[133]
<#cite_note-who's_first_encounter-133>


        Zaire outbreak

See also: Yambuku § Ebola outbreak
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yambuku#Ebola_outbreak>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:CDC_worker_incinerates_med-waste_from_Ebola_patients_in_Zaire.jpg>


<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:CDC_worker_incinerates_med-waste_from_Ebola_patients_in_Zaire.jpg>
CDC worker incinerates medical waste from Ebola patients in Zaire in 1976.

On 26 August 1976, a second outbreak of EVD began in Yambuku
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yambuku>, a small rural village in
Mongala District <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mongala_District> in
northern Zaire <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zaire> (now known as the
Democratic Republic of the Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo>).^[134]
<#cite_note-134> ^[135] <#cite_note-Feldmann2003-135> This outbreak was
caused by EBOV, formerly designated /Zaire ebolavirus/, which is a
different member of the genus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genus>
/Ebolavirus/ than in the first Sudan outbreak. The first person infected
with the disease <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Index_case> was village
school headmaster Mabalo Lokela
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mabalo_Lokela>, who began displaying
symptoms on 26 August 1976.^[136] <#cite_note-whqlibdoc.who.int-136>
Lokela had returned from a trip to Northern Zaire near the Central
African Republic border, having visited the Ebola River
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_River> between 12 and 22 August. He
was originally believed to have malaria
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaria> and was given quinine
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quinine>. However, his symptoms continued
to worsen, and he was admitted to Yambuku Mission Hospital on 5
September. Lokela died on 8 September 14 days after he began displaying
symptoms.^[137]
<#cite_note-urlOutbreak_of_Ebola_Viral_Hemorrhagic_Fever_–_Zaire,_1995-137>
^[138] <#cite_note-urlMabalo_Lokela_Archives_–_Political_Moll-138>

Soon after Lokela's death, others who had been in contact with him also
died, and people in the village of Yambuku began to panic. This led the
country's Minister of Health along with Zaire President Mobutu Sese Seko
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobutu_Sese_Seko> to declare the entire
region, including Yambuku and the country's capital, Kinshasa
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinshasa>, a quarantine zone. No one was
permitted to enter or leave the area, with roads, waterways, and
airfields placed under martial law
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martial_law>. Schools, businesses and
social organizations were closed.^[139] <#cite_note-Stimola-139>
Researchers from the CDC
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centers_for_Disease_Control_and_Prevention>,
including Peter Piot <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Piot>,
co-discoverer of Ebola, later arrived to assess the effects of the
outbreak, observing that "the whole region was in panic."^[140]
<#cite_note-Piot_2012-140> ^[141] <#cite_note-Piot-one-141> ^[142]
<#cite_note-Piot-two-142> Piot concluded that the Belgian nuns had
inadvertently started the epidemic by giving unnecessary vitamin
injections to pregnant women, without sterilizing the syringes and
needles. The outbreak lasted 26 days, with the quarantine lasting 2
weeks. Among the reasons that researchers speculated caused the disease
to disappear, were the precautions taken by locals, the quarantine of
the area, and discontinuing the injections.^[139] <#cite_note-Stimola-139>

During this outbreak, Dr. Ngoy Mushola recorded the first clinical
description of EVD in Yambuku <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yambuku>,
where he wrote the following in his daily log: "The illness is
characterized with a high temperature of about 39 °C (102 °F),
hematemesis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hematemesis>, diarrhea with
blood, retrosternal abdominal pain, prostration with 'heavy'
articulations, and rapid evolution death after a mean of 3 days."^[143]
<#cite_note-143>

The virus responsible for the initial outbreak, first thought to be
Marburg virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus>, was later
identified as a new type of virus related to marburgviruses. Virus
strain samples isolated from both outbreaks were named as the "Ebola
virus" after the Ebola River
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_River>, located near the originally
identified viral outbreak site in Zaire.^[24]
<#cite_note-Feldmann2011-24> Reports conflict about who initially coined
the name: either Karl Johnson of the American CDC team^[144]
<#cite_note-hz-144> or Belgian researchers.^[145]
<#cite_note-observer-145> Subsequently, a number of other cases were
reported, almost all centered on the Yambuku mission hospital or having
close contact with another case.^[136]
<#cite_note-whqlibdoc.who.int-136> 318 cases and 280 deaths (an 88
percent fatality rate) occurred in Zaire.^[146]
<#cite_note-emedicine.com-146> Although it was assumed that the two
outbreaks were connected, scientists later realized that they were
caused by two distinct ebolaviruses, SUDV and EBOV.^[135]
<#cite_note-Feldmann2003-135> The Zaire outbreak was contained with the
help of the World Health Organization
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Health_Organization> and transport
from the Congolese air force, by quarantining villagers, sterilizing
medical equipment, and providing protective clothing.


      1995 to 2014

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:EbolaSubmit2.png>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:EbolaSubmit2.png>
Cases of Ebola fever in Africa from 1979 to 2008

The second major outbreak occurred in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic
of the Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo>) in
1995, affecting 315 and killing 254.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

In 2000, Uganda <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uganda> had an outbreak
affecting 425 and killing 224; in this case, the Sudan virus was found
to be the Ebola species responsible for the outbreak.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

In 2003 there was an outbreak in the Republic of the Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_of_the_Congo> that affected 143
and killed 128, a death rate of 90 percent, the highest death rate of a
genus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genus> /Ebolavirus/ outbreak to
date.^[147] <#cite_note-pmid14579469-147>

In 2004 a Russian scientist died from Ebola after sticking
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Needlestick_injury> herself with an
infected needle.^[148] <#cite_note-148>

Between April and August 2007, a fever epidemic^[149]
<#cite_note-CBCRadioSept2007-149> in a four-village region^[150]
<#cite_note-Mystery_DR_Congo_fever_kills_100-150> of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo was confirmed in September to have cases of
Ebola.^[151] <#cite_note-151> Many people who attended the recent
funeral of a local village chief died.^[150]
<#cite_note-Mystery_DR_Congo_fever_kills_100-150> The 2007 outbreak
eventually affected 264 individuals and resulted in the deaths of
187.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

On 30 November 2007, the Uganda Ministry of Health confirmed an outbreak
of Ebola in the Bundibugyo District
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundibugyo_District> in Western Uganda.
After confirmation of samples tested by the United States National
Reference Laboratories and the Centers for Disease Control, the World
Health Organization confirmed the presence of a new species of genus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genus> /Ebolavirus/, which was
tentatively named Bundibugyo.^[152] <#cite_note-152> The WHO reported
149 cases of this new strain and 37 of those led to deaths.^[1]
<#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

The WHO confirmed two small outbreaks in Uganda in 2012. The first
outbreak affected 7 people and resulted in the death of 4 and the second
affected 24, resulting in the death of 17. The Sudan variant was
responsible for both outbreaks.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1>

On 17 August 2012, the Ministry of Health of the Democratic Republic of
the Congo reported an outbreak of the Ebola-Bundibugyo variant^[153]
<#cite_note-153> in the eastern region.^[154] <#cite_note-154> ^[155]
<#cite_note-155> Other than its discovery in 2007, this was the only
time that this variant has been identified as responsible for an
outbreak. The WHO revealed that the virus had sickened 57 people and
claimed 29 lives. The probable cause of the outbreak was tainted bush
meat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bush_meat> hunted by local villagers
around the towns of Isiro <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isiro> and
Viadana.^[1] <#cite_note-WHO2014-1> ^[156] <#cite_note-156>

In 2014, an outbreak of Ebola virus disease occurred in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (DRC). Genome-sequencing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whole_genome_sequencing> has shown that
this outbreak was not related to the 2014–15 West Africa Ebola virus
outbreak
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Africa_Ebola_virus_outbreak>, but
was the same EBOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EBOV> species, the
Zaire species.^[157] <#cite_note-2014_DRC_Who_Strain-157> It began in
August 2014 and was declared over in November of that year with a total
of 66 cases and 49 deaths.^[158] <#cite_note-reuters1511-158> This is
the 7th outbreak in the DRC, three of which occurred during the period
when the country was known as Zaire
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zaire>.^[159] <#cite_note-159>


      2013–2016 West African outbreak

Main article: West African Ebola virus epidemic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_African_Ebola_virus_epidemic>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Diseased_Ebola_2014.png>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Diseased_Ebola_2014.png>
Cases and deaths from April 2014 to July 2015 during the 2013–2015
outbreak <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_epidemic_in_West_Africa>

In March 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported a major
Ebola outbreak in Guinea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guinea>, a
western African nation.^[160] <#cite_note-CDC2014Out-160> Researchers
traced the outbreak to a one-year-old child who died December
2013.^[161] <#cite_note-Baize2014-161> ^[162] <#cite_note-1st_Chain-162>
The disease then rapidly spread to the neighboring countries of Liberia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberia> and Sierra Leone
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sierra_Leone>. It is the largest Ebola
outbreak ever documented, and the first recorded in the region.^[160]
<#cite_note-CDC2014Out-160> On 8 August 2014, the WHO declared the
epidemic to be an international public health emergency. Urging the
world to offer aid to the affected regions, the Director-General said,
"Countries affected to date simply do not have the capacity to manage an
outbreak of this size and complexity on their own. I urge the
international community to provide this support on the most urgent basis
possible."^[163] <#cite_note-163> By mid-August 2014, Doctors Without
Borders reported the situation in Liberia's capital Monrovia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monrovia> as "catastrophic" and
"deteriorating daily". They reported that fears of Ebola among staff
members and patients had shut down much of the city’s health system,
leaving many people without treatment for other conditions.^[164]
<#cite_note-Common_Dreams-164> In a 26 September statement, the WHO
said, "The Ebola epidemic ravaging parts of West Africa is the most
severe acute public health emergency seen in modern times. Never before
in recorded history has a biosafety level
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biosafety_level> four pathogen infected
so many people so quickly, over such a broad geographical area, for so
long."^[165] <#cite_note-Ebola_situation_assessment-165>

Intense contact tracing and strict isolation techniques largely
prevented further spread of the disease in the countries that had
imported cases. As of 8 May 2016^[update]
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&action=edit>
, 28,616 suspected cases and 11,310 deaths have been reported;^[9]
<#cite_note-08who2016-9> ^[166] <#cite_note-:0-166> however, the WHO has
said that these numbers may be underestimated.^[167]
<#cite_note-Ebola_Outbreak_total_WHO_28_Sept-167> Because they work
closely with the body fluids of infected patients, healthcare workers
have been especially vulnerable to catching the disease; in August 2014,
the WHO reported that ten percent of the dead have been healthcare
workers.^[168] <#cite_note-168>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:2014_ebola_virus_epidemic_in_West_Africa.svg>


<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:2014_ebola_virus_epidemic_in_West_Africa.svg>
2014 Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa

In September 2014, it was estimated that the countries' capacity for
treating Ebola patients was insufficient by the equivalent of 2,122
beds; by December there were a sufficient number of beds to treat and
isolate all reported Ebola cases, although the uneven distribution of
cases was resulting in serious shortfalls in some areas.^[169]
<#cite_note-WHO2014_12_10-169> On 28 January 2015, the WHO reported that
for the first time since the week ending 29 June 2014, there had been
fewer than 100 new confirmed cases reported in a week in the three
most-affected countries. The response to the epidemic then moved to a
second phase, as the focus shifted from slowing transmission to ending
the epidemic.^[170] <#cite_note-World_Health_Organization-170> On 8
April 2015, the WHO reported a total of only 30 confirmed cases, the
lowest weekly total since the third week of May 2014.^[171]
<#cite_note-WHO-171>

On 29 December 2015, 42 days after the last person tested negative for a
second time, Guinea was declared free of Ebola transmission.^[172]
<#cite_note-172> At that time, a 90-day period of heightened
surveillance was announced by that agency. "This is the first time that
all three countries – Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone – have stopped
the original chains of transmission ...", the organization stated in a
news release.^[173] <#cite_note-173> A new case was detected in Sierra
Leone on 14 January 2016.^[174] <#cite_note-174> However, the outbreak
was declared no longer an emergency on 29 March 2016.^[12]
<#cite_note-who.int-12>


      2014 spread outside West Africa

Main articles: Ebola virus cases in the United States
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_cases_in_the_United_States>,
Ebola virus disease in Spain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_in_Spain>, and Ebola
virus disease in the United Kingdom
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_in_the_United_Kingdom>

On 19 September, Eric Duncan flew from his native Liberia to Texas; 5
days later he began showing symptoms and visited a hospital but was sent
home. His condition worsened and he returned to the hospital on 28
September, where he died on 8 October. Health officials confirmed a
diagnosis of Ebola on 30 September – the first case in the United
States.^[175] <#cite_note-175>

In early October, Teresa Romero, a 44-year-old Spanish nurse, contracted
Ebola after caring for a priest who had been repatriated from West
Africa. This was the first transmission of the virus to occur outside
Africa.^[176] <#cite_note-176> On 20 October, it was announced that
Teresa Romero had tested negative for the Ebola virus, suggesting that
she may have recovered from Ebola infection.^[177] <#cite_note-177>

On 12 October, the CDC
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centers_for_Disease_Control_and_Prevention>
confirmed that a nurse in Texas, Nina Pham
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nina_Pham>, who had treated Duncan was
found to be positive for the Ebola virus, the first known case of the
disease to be contracted in the United States.^[178]
<#cite_note-NYT-20141012-MF-178> On 15 October, a second Texas
health-care worker who had treated Duncan was confirmed to have the
virus.^[179] <#cite_note-179> ^[61] <#cite_note-NBC-ebolaTX-61> Both of
these people have since recovered.^[180] <#cite_note-CDC-20142411-180>

As of 15 October 2014, there have been 17 cases of Ebola treated outside
Africa, four of whom have died.^[181] <#cite_note-181>

On 23 October, a doctor in New York City, who returned to the United
States from Guinea after working with Doctors Without Borders, tested
positive for Ebola. His case is unrelated to the Texas cases.^[182]
<#cite_note-182> The person has recovered and was discharged from
Bellevue Hospital Center on 11 November.^[180]
<#cite_note-CDC-20142411-180> On 24 December 2014, a laboratory in
Atlanta <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlanta>, Georgia reported that a
technician had been exposed to Ebola.^[183] <#cite_note-183>

On 29 December 2014, Pauline Cafferkey
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pauline_Cafferkey>, a British nurse who
had just returned to Glasgow <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glasgow>
from Sierra Leone, was diagnosed with Ebola at Glasgow's Gartnavel
General Hospital
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gartnavel_General_Hospital>.^[184]
<#cite_note-BBC-30628349-184> After initial treatment in Glasgow, she
was transferred by air to RAF Northolt
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAF_Northolt>, then to the specialist
high-level isolation unit
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-level_isolation_unit> at the Royal
Free Hospital <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Free_Hospital> in
London <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London> for longer-term
treatment.^[185] <#cite_note-BBC-30629397-185>


    Society and culture

See also: Cultural effects of the Ebola crisis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_effects_of_the_Ebola_crisis>


      Weaponization

/Ebolavirus/ is classified as a biosafety level 4
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biosafety_level#Levels> agent, as well as
a Category A bioterrorism
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bioterrorism#Category_A> agent by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.^[78]
<#cite_note-Ansari2014-78> ^[186] <#cite_note-MacNeil2012-186> It has
the potential to be weaponized for use in biological warfare
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biological_warfare>,^[187]
<#cite_note-pmid11988060-187> ^[188] <#cite_note-188> and was
investigated by Biopreparat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biopreparat>
for such use, but might be difficult to prepare as a weapon of mass
destruction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weapon_of_mass_destruction>
because the virus becomes ineffective quickly in open air.^[189]
<#cite_note-Zubray-189> Fake emails pretending to be Ebola information
from the WHO or the Mexican Government have in 2014 been misused to
spread computer malware.^[190] <#cite_note-190> The BBC reported in 2015
that, "North Korean state media has suggested the disease was created by
the US military as a biological weapon."^[191] <#cite_note-191>


      Literature

Richard Preston <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Preston>'s 1995
best-selling <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Best-selling> book, /The Hot
Zone <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hot_Zone>/, dramatized the Ebola
outbreak in Reston, Virginia.^[192] <#cite_note-192> ^[193]
<#cite_note-193> ^[194] <#cite_note-194>

William Close <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Close>'s 1995
/Ebola: A Documentary Novel of Its First Explosion/^[195]
<#cite_note-195> ^[196] <#cite_note-196> and 2002 /Ebola: Through the
Eyes of the People/ focused on individuals' reactions to the 1976 Ebola
outbreak in Zaire.^[197] <#cite_note-197> ^[198] <#cite_note-198>

Tom Clancy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Clancy>'s 1996 novel,
/Executive Orders <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_Orders>/,
involves a Middle Eastern <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middle_East>
terrorist attack on the United States using an airborne form of a deadly
Ebola virus strain named "Ebola Mayinga" (see Mayinga N'Seka
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayinga_N%27Seka>).^[199]
<#cite_note-199> ^[200] <#cite_note-200>

As the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa developed in 2014, a number
of popular self-published and well-reviewed books containing sensational
and misleading information about the disease appeared in electronic and
printed formats. The authors of some such books admitted that they
lacked medical credentials and were not technically qualified to give
medical advice. The World Health Organization and the United Nations
stated that such misinformation had contributed to the spread of the
disease.^[201] <#cite_note-201>


    Other animals


      Wild animals

Ebola has a high mortality among primates.^[115]
<#cite_note-Choi2013-115> Frequent outbreaks of Ebola may have resulted
in the deaths of 5,000 gorillas.^[202] <#cite_note-202> Outbreaks of
Ebola may have been responsible for an 88 percent decline in tracking
indices of observed chimpanzee populations in 420 square kilometer Lossi
Sanctuary between 2002 and 2003.^[203]
<#cite_note-doi10.1126/science.1092528-203> Transmission among
chimpanzees through meat consumption constitutes a significant risk
factor, whereas contact between the animals, such as touching dead
bodies and grooming, is not.^[204] <#cite_note-204>

Recovered carcasses from gorillas contain multiple Ebola virus strains,
which suggest multiple introductions of the virus. Bodies decompose
quickly and carcasses are not infectious after 3 to 4 days. Contact
between gorilla groups is rare, suggesting transmission among gorilla
groups is unlikely, and that outbreaks result from transmission between
viral reservoir and animal populations.^[203]
<#cite_note-doi10.1126/science.1092528-203>


      Domestic animals

In 2012 it was demonstrated that the virus can travel without contact
from pigs to nonhuman primates, although the same study failed to
achieve transmission in that manner between primates.^[70]
<#cite_note-Weingartl_2013-70> ^[205] <#cite_note-Weingartl2012-205>

Dogs may become infected with EBOV but not develop symptoms. Dogs in
some parts of Africa scavenge <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scavenge>
for food, and they sometimes eat EBOV-infected animals and also the
corpses of humans. A 2005 survey of dogs during an EBOV outbreak found
that although they remain asymptomatic, about 32 percent of dogs closest
to an outbreak showed a seroprevalence
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seroprevalence> for EBOV versus 9 percent
of those farther away.^[206] <#cite_note-pmid15757552-206> The authors
concluded that there were "potential implications for preventing and
controlling human outbreaks."


      Reston virus

For more about the outbreak in Virginia, US, see Reston virus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reston_virus>.

In late 1989, Hazelton Research Products' Reston Quarantine Unit in
Reston, Virginia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reston,_Virginia>,
suffered an outbreak of fatal illness amongst certain lab monkeys. This
lab outbreak was initially diagnosed as simian hemorrhagic fever virus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simian_hemorrhagic_fever_virus> (SHFV)
and occurred amongst a shipment of crab-eating macaque
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crab-eating_macaque> monkeys imported
from the Philippines. Hazelton's veterinary pathologist sent tissue
samples from dead animals to the United States Army Medical Research
Institute of Infectious Diseases
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Army_Medical_Research_Institute_of_Infectious_Diseases>
(USAMRIID) at Fort Detrick, Maryland
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fort_Detrick,_Maryland>, where an ELISA
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ELISA> test indicated the antibodies
present in the tissue were a response to Ebola virus and not SHFV.^[207]
<#cite_note-Preston-207> An electron microscopist from USAMRIID
discovered filoviruses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filoviruses>
similar in appearance to Ebola in the tissue samples sent from Hazelton
Research Products' Reston Quarantine Unit.^[208]
<#cite_note-McCormick_1999_277–279-208>

A US Army <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/US_Army> team headquartered at
USAMRIID euthanized <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euthanisia> the
surviving monkeys, and brought all the monkeys to Ft. Detrick
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ft._Detrick> for study by the Army's
veterinary pathologists and virologists, and eventual disposal under
safe conditions.^[207] <#cite_note-Preston-207> Blood samples were taken
from 178 animal handlers during the incident.^[209]
<#cite_note-Waterman_1999-209> Of those, six animal handlers eventually
seroconverted <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seroconverted>, including
one who had cut himself with a bloody scalpel.^[79]
<#cite_note-isbn0-7910-8505-8-79> ^[210]
<#cite_note-McCormick_1999_298–299-210> Despite its status as a Level‑4
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biosafety_level_4> organism and its
apparent pathogenicity <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pathogen> in
monkeys, when the handlers did not become ill, the CDC concluded that
the virus had a very low pathogenicity to humans.^[210]
<#cite_note-McCormick_1999_298–299-210> ^[211] <#cite_note-211>

The Philippines and the United States had no previous cases of Ebola
infection, and upon further isolation, researchers concluded it was
another strain of Ebola, or a new filovirus of Asian origin, which they
named /Reston ebolavirus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reston_ebolavirus>/ (RESTV) after the
location of the incident.^[207] <#cite_note-Preston-207> Reston virus
(RESTV) can be transmitted to pigs.^[70] <#cite_note-Weingartl_2013-70>
Since the initial outbreak it has since been found in nonhuman primates
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primate> in Pennsylvania, Texas, and
Italy,^[212] <#cite_note-KnownCasesCDC-212> where the virus had infected
pigs.^[213] <#cite_note-213> According to the WHO, routine cleaning and
disinfection of pig (or monkey) farms with sodium hypochlorite
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sodium_hypochlorite> or detergents
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Detergents> should be effective in
inactivating the /Reston ebolavirus/. Pigs that have been infected with
RESTV tend to show symptoms <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symptoms> of
the disease.


    Research


      Treatments

Main article: Ebola virus disease treatment research
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_treatment_research>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Monoclonal_antibodies3.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Monoclonal_antibodies3.jpg>
Researchers looking at slides of cultures of cells that make monoclonal
antibodies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monoclonal_antibodies>. These
are grown in a lab and the researchers are analyzing the products to
select the most promising.

As of July 2015, there is no medication which has been proven to be safe
and effective in treating Ebola. By the time the Ebola virus epidemic in
West Africa
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_epidemic_in_West_Africa>
began in 2013, there were at least nine different candidate treatments.
Several trials were conducted in late 2014 and early 2015, but some were
abandoned due to lack of efficacy or lack of people to study.^[214]
<#cite_note-214>


      Vaccines

Main article: Ebola vaccine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_vaccine>

Many Ebola vaccine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_vaccine>
candidates had been developed in the decade prior to 2014,^[215]
<#cite_note-Richardson2010-215> but as of November 2014, none had been
approved for use in humans in the United States.^[216]
<#cite_note-WHOSept2014-216> ^[217] <#cite_note-FDAOct2014-217> ^[218]
<#cite_note-WhenVaccine2014-218> In December 2016, Ebola virus disease
was found to be 70–100% prevented by rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RVSV-ZEBOV_vaccine>, making it the first
proven vaccine against the disease.^[219] <#cite_note-219> ^[220]
<#cite_note-TL-20161222-220> ^[221] <#cite_note-CNN-2016122-221>


      Diagnostic tests

One issue which hinders control of Ebola is that diagnostic tests which
are currently available require specialized equipment and highly trained
personnel. Since there are few suitable testing centers in West Africa,
this leads to delay in diagnosis. In December 2014, a conference in
Geneva will aim to work out which diagnostic tools could be to identify
Ebola reliably and more quickly. The meeting, convened by the WHO and
the non-profit Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundation_for_Innovative_New_Diagnostics>,
seeks to identify tests that can be used by untrained staff, do not
require electricity or can run on batteries or solar power and use
reagents that can withstand temperatures of 40 °C.^[222] <#cite_note-222>

On 29 November 2014, a new 15-minute Ebola test was reported that if
successful, "not only gives patients a better chance of survival, but it
prevents transmission of the virus to other people." The new equipment,
about the size of a laptop and solar-powered, allows testing to be done
in remote areas. The equipment is currently being tested in
Guinea.^[223] <#cite_note-223>

On 29 December 2014, the FDA approved LightMix (R) Ebola Zaire rRT-PCR
Test on patients with symptoms of Ebola. The report indicates it could
help health care authorities around the world.^[224] <#cite_note-224>


    See also

  * iconMedicine portal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Medicine>
  * icon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Sida-aids.png>Viruses
    portal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Viruses>

  * List of human disease case fatality rates
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_human_disease_case_fatality_rates>


    References

*Notes*

 1. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-6> ^/*h*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-7> ^/*i*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-8> ^/*j*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-9> ^/*k*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-10> ^/*l*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-11> ^/*m*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-12> ^/*n*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-13> ^/*o*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-14> ^/*p*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-15> ^/*q*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-16> ^/*r*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-17> ^/*s*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-18> ^/*t*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-19> ^/*u*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-20> ^/*v*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-21> ^/*w*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-22> ^/*x*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-23> ^/*y*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-24> ^/*z*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-25> ^/*aa*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-26> ^/*ab*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-27> ^/*ac*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-28> ^/*ad*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-29> ^/*ae*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-30> ^/*af*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-31> ^/*ag*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-32> ^/*ah*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-33> ^/*ai*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-34> ^/*aj*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-35> ^/*ak*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-36> ^/*al*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-37> ^/*am*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-38> ^/*an*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-39> ^/*ao*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-40> ^/*ap*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-41> ^/*aq*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-42> ^/*ar*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-43> ^/*as*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-44> ^/*at*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-45> ^/*au*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_1-46> "Ebola
    virus disease Fact sheet No. 103"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs103/en/>. World Health
    Organization. September 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140811180302/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs103/en/>
    from the original on 11 August 2014. 
 2. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Ruz2014_2-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Ruz2014_2-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Ruz2014_2-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-Ruz2014_2-3> Ruzek, edited by Sunit K. Singh, Daniel
    (2014). /Viral hemorrhagic fevers/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=l5MtJdDhie0C&pg=PA444>. Boca
    Raton: CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group. p. 444. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 9781439884294
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781439884294>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160429192429/https://books.google.com/books?id=l5MtJdDhie0C&pg=PA444>
    from the original on 29 April 2016. CS1 maint: Extra text: authors
    list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Extra_text:_authors_list>)
 3. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-WHOAir2014_3-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-WHOAir2014_3-1> "2014 Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) outbreak
    in West Africa" <http://www.who.int/ith/updates/20140421/en/>. WHO.
    21 April 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140729034008/http://www.who.int/ith/updates/20140421/en/>
    from the original on 29 July 2014. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
 4. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-cdc9months_4-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-cdc9months_4-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-cdc9months_4-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-cdc9months_4-3> "Preliminary study finds that Ebola virus
    fragments can persist in the semen of some survivors for at least
    nine months"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2015/p1014-ebola-virus.html>.
    CDC. 14 October 2015. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170824104650/https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2015/p1014-ebola-virus.html>
    from the original on 24 August 2017. 
 5. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDCBreast2014_5-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDCBreast2014_5-1> "Recommendations for
    Breastfeeding/Infant Feeding in the Context of Ebola"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/recommendations-breastfeeding-infant-feeding-ebola.html>.
    /cdc.gov/. 19 September 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141024235607/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/recommendations-breastfeeding-infant-feeding-ebola.html>
    from the original on 24 October 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
 6. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-6>* "Guidance for Safe Handling of Human
    Remains of Ebola Patients in U. S. Hospitals and Mortuaries"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/guidance-safe-handling-human-remains-ebola-patients-us-hospitals-mortuaries.html>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141009172209/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/guidance-safe-handling-human-remains-ebola-patients-us-hospitals-mortuaries.html>
    from the original on 9 October 2014. Retrieved 10 October 2014. 
 7. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-who2014factsheet_7-0>* "Ebola virus disease,
    Fact sheet N°103, Updated September 2014"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs103/en/>. World Health
    Organization
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Health_Organization>. September
    2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141214011751/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs103/en/>
    from the original on 14 December 2014. Retrieved 15 December 2014. 
 8. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-MMWRJune2014_8-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-MMWRJune2014_8-1> "Ebola Viral Disease Outbreak – West
    Africa, 2014"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6325a4.htm?s_cid=mm6325a4_w>.
    /CDC/. 27 June 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140630115747/http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6325a4.htm?s_cid=mm6325a4_w>
    from the original on 30 June 2014. Retrieved 26 June 2014. 
 9. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-08who2016_9-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-08who2016_9-1> "Ebola data and statistics"
    <http://apps.who.int/gho/data/view.ebola-sitrep.ebola-summary-latest?lang=en>.
    World Health Organisation. Retrieved 9 June 2016. 
10. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014_10-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014_10-1> "CDC urges all US residents to avoid
    nonessential travel to Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone because of
    an unprecedented outbreak of Ebola"
    <http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/warning/ebola-liberia>. /CDC/.
    31 July 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140809181737/http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/warning/ebola-liberia>
    from the original on 9 August 2014. Retrieved 2 August 2014. 
11. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDCAug2014N_11-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDCAug2014N_11-1> "2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/>. /CDC/.
    4 August 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141002134254/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/>
    from the original on 2 October 2014. Retrieved 5 August 2014. 
12. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-who.int_12-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-who.int_12-1> "Statement on the 9th meeting of the IHR
    Emergency Committee regarding the Ebola outbreak in West Africa"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2016/end-of-ebola-pheic/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. 29 March 2016. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160331231040/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2016/end-of-ebola-pheic/en/>
    from the original on 31 March 2016. Retrieved 30 March 2016. 
13. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-13>* "Statement on Ebola in the Democratic
    Republic of the Congo"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2017/ebola-drc/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170512203522/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2017/ebola-drc/en/>
    from the original on 12 May 2017. Retrieved 12 May 2017. 
14. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-14>* Hodal, Kate (12 May 2017). "Ebola
    outbreak declared in Democratic Republic of the Congo after three
    die"
    <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/may/12/ebola-outbreak-declared-democratic-republic-of-congo-after-three-die>.
    The Guardian. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170512161809/https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/may/12/ebola-outbreak-declared-democratic-republic-of-congo-after-three-die>
    from the original on 12 May 2017. Retrieved 12 May 2017. 
15. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014S_15-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014S_15-1> "Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever Signs and
    Symptoms" <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/symptoms/index.html>.
    /CDC/. 28 January 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140801015854/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/symptoms/index.html>
    from the original on 1 August 2014. Retrieved 2 August 2014. 
16. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Goeijenbier2014_16-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Goeijenbier2014_16-1> ^/*c*/
    <#cite_ref-Goeijenbier2014_16-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-Goeijenbier2014_16-3> ^/*e*/
    <#cite_ref-Goeijenbier2014_16-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-Goeijenbier2014_16-5> ^/*g*/
    <#cite_ref-Goeijenbier2014_16-6> Goeijenbier M, van Kampen JJ,
    Reusken CB, Koopmans MP, van Gorp EC (November 2014). "Ebola virus
    disease: a review on epidemiology, symptoms, treatment and
    pathogenesis" <http://www.njmonline.nl/getpdf.php?t=a&id=10001148>.
    /Neth J Med/. *72* (9): 442–48. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25387613
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25387613>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141129144852/http://www.njmonline.nl/getpdf.php?t=a&id=10001148>
    from the original on 29 November 2014. 
17. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-17>* Charles N. Haas (14 October 2014). "On
    the Quarantine Period for Ebola Virus"
    <http://currents.plos.org/outbreaks/article/on-the-quarantine-period-for-ebola-virus/>.
    /PLOS Currents Outbreaks/. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1371/currents.outbreaks.2ab4b76ba7263ff0f084766e43abbd89
    <https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fcurrents.outbreaks.2ab4b76ba7263ff0f084766e43abbd89>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141019180658/http://currents.plos.org/outbreaks/article/on-the-quarantine-period-for-ebola-virus/>
    from the original on 19 October 2014. 
18. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Gatherer_2014_18-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Gatherer_2014_18-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Gatherer_2014_18-2>
    Gatherer D (August 2014). "The 2014 Ebola virus disease outbreak in
    West Africa". /J Gen Virol/. *95* (Pt 8): 1619–24. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1099/vir.0.067199-0
    <https://doi.org/10.1099%2Fvir.0.067199-0>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 24795448
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24795448>. 
19. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Hun2012_19-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Hun2012_19-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Hun2012_19-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-Hun2012_19-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-Hun2012_19-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-Hun2012_19-5> Magill, Alan
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Magill> (2013). /Hunter's
    tropical medicine and emerging infectious diseases/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=UgvdM8WRld4C&pg=PA332> (9th ed.).
    New York: Saunders. p. 332. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 9781416043904
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781416043904>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160320072816/https://books.google.com/books?id=UgvdM8WRld4C&pg=PA332>
    from the original on 20 March 2016. 
20. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Hoenen2006_20-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Hoenen2006_20-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Hoenen2006_20-2>
    ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-Hoenen2006_20-3> Hoenen T, Groseth A, Falzarano D,
    Feldmann H (May 2006). "Ebola virus: unravelling pathogenesis to
    combat a deadly disease". /Trends in Molecular Medicine/. *12* (5):
    206–15. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.molmed.2006.03.006
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.molmed.2006.03.006>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16616875
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16616875>. 
21. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-urlwhqlibdoc.who.int_21-0>* Simpson DIH
    (1977). "Marburg and Ebola virus infections: a guide for their
    diagnosis, management, and control"
    <http://whqlibdoc.who.int/offset/WHO_OFFSET_36.pdf> (PDF). /WHO
    Offset Publication No. 36/. p. 10f. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141021090422/http://whqlibdoc.who.int/offset/WHO_OFFSET_36.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 21 October 2014. 
22. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-22>* "Ebola Virus, Clinical Presentation"
    <http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/216288-clinical#showall>.
    Medscape. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20120101205843/http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/216288-clinical#showall>
    from the original on 1 January 2012. Retrieved 30 July 2012. 
23. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-23>* "Appendix A: Disease-Specific Chapters —
    Chapter: Hemorrhagic fevers caused by: i) Ebola virus and ii)
    Marburg virus and iii) Other viral causes including bunyaviruses,
    arenaviruses, and flaviviruses"
    <http://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/publichealth/oph_standards/docs/hemorrhagic_fevers_chapter.pdf>
    (PDF). Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ministry_of_Health_and_Long-Term_Care>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141015081924/http://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/publichealth/oph_standards/docs/hemorrhagic_fevers_chapter.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 15 October 2014. Retrieved 9 October 2014. 
24. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Feldmann2011_24-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Feldmann2011_24-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Feldmann2011_24-2>
    ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-Feldmann2011_24-3> ^/*e*/
    <#cite_ref-Feldmann2011_24-4> ^/*f*/ <#cite_ref-Feldmann2011_24-5>
    ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-Feldmann2011_24-6> Feldmann H, Geisbert TW (March
    2011). "Ebola haemorrhagic fever"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3406178>. /Lancet/.
    *377* (9768): 849–62. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60667-8
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0140-6736%2810%2960667-8>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3406178
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3406178> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21084112
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21084112>. 
25. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-25>* Fisher-Hoch SP, Platt GS, Neild GH,
    Southee T, Baskerville A, Raymond RT, Lloyd G, Simpson DI (November
    1985). "Pathophysiology of shock and hemorrhage in a fulminating
    viral infection (Ebola)". /J. Infect. Dis/. *152* (5): 887–94. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1093/infdis/152.5.887
    <https://doi.org/10.1093%2Finfdis%2F152.5.887>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 4045253
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4045253>. 
26. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Tosh2014_26-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Tosh2014_26-1> Tosh PK, Sampathkumar P (December 2014).
    "What Clinicians Should Know About the 2014 Ebola Outbreak". /Mayo
    Clin Proc/. *89* (12): 1710–17. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.mayocp.2014.10.010
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.mayocp.2014.10.010>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25467644
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25467644>. 
27. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-27>* "An emergency within an emergency: caring
    for Ebola survivors"
    <http://www.afro.who.int/en/sierra-leone/press-materials/item/7908-an-emergency-within-an-emergency-caring-for-ebola-survivors.html>.
    /World Health Organization/. 7 August 2015. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150813163313/http://www.afro.who.int/en/sierra-leone/press-materials/item/7908-an-emergency-within-an-emergency-caring-for-ebola-survivors.html>
    from the original on 13 August 2015. Retrieved 12 August 2015. 
28. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014QAT_28-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014QAT_28-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014QAT_28-2>
    ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014QAT_28-3> "Q&A on Transmission, Ebola"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/qas.html>. /CDC/.
    September 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141002210702/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/qas.html>
    from the original on 2 October 2014. Retrieved 3 October 2014. 
29. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Hoenen2012_29-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Hoenen2012_29-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Hoenen2012_29-2>
    Hoenen T, Groseth A, Feldmann H (July 2012). "Current Ebola
    vaccines" <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3422127>.
    /Expert Opin Biol Ther/. *12* (7): 859–72. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1517/14712598.2012.685152
    <https://doi.org/10.1517%2F14712598.2012.685152>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3422127
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3422127> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 22559078
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22559078>. 
30. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-KuhnArch_30-0>* Kuhn JH, Becker S, Ebihara H,
    Geisbert TW, Johnson KM, Kawaoka Y, Lipkin WI, Negredo AI, Netesov
    SV, Nichol ST, Palacios G, Peters CJ, Tenorio A, Volchkov VE,
    Jahrling PB (December 2010). "Proposal for a revised taxonomy of the
    family Filoviridae: Classification, names of taxa and viruses, and
    virus abbreviations"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3074192>. /Archives of
    Virology/. *155* (12): 2083–103. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1007/s00705-010-0814-x
    <https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs00705-010-0814-x>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3074192
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3074192> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21046175
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21046175>. 
31. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Spickler_31-0>* Spickler, Anna. "Ebolavirus
    and Marburgvirus Infections"
    <http://www.cfsph.iastate.edu/Factsheets/pdfs/viral_hemorrhagic_fever_filovirus.pdf>
    (PDF). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150430165458/http://www.cfsph.iastate.edu/Factsheets/pdfs/viral_hemorrhagic_fever_filovirus.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 30 April 2015. 
32. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-32>* "About Ebola Virus Disease"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/about.html>. /CDC/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141016080233/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/about.html>
    from the original on 16 October 2014. Retrieved 18 October 2014. 
33. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Fauquet2005_33-0>* Pringle, C. R. (2005).
    "Order Mononegavirales". In Fauquet, C. M.; Mayo, M. A.; Maniloff,
    J.; Desselberger, U.; Ball, L. A. /Virus Taxonomy – Eighth Report of
    the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses/. San Diego, US:
    Elsevier/Academic Press. pp. 609–14. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0-12-370200-3
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-12-370200-3>. 
34. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Stahelin2014_34-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Stahelin2014_34-1> Stahelin RV (June 2014). "Membrane
    binding and bending in Ebola VP40 assembly and egress"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4061899>. /Front
    Microbiol/. *5*: 300. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3389/fmicb.2014.00300
    <https://doi.org/10.3389%2Ffmicb.2014.00300>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4061899
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4061899> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 24995005
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24995005>. 
35. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-35>* Ascenzi P, Bocedi A, Heptonstall J,
    Capobianchi MR, Di Caro A, Mastrangelo E, Bolognesi M, Ippolito G
    (June 2008). "Ebolavirus and Marburgvirus: insight the Filoviridae
    family". /Mol Aspects Med/. *29* (3): 151–85. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.mam.2007.09.005
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.mam.2007.09.005>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 18063023
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18063023>. 
36. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Chippaux2014_36-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Chippaux2014_36-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Chippaux2014_36-2>
    ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-Chippaux2014_36-3> Chippaux JP (October 2014).
    "Outbreaks of Ebola virus disease in Africa: the beginnings of a
    tragic saga" <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4197285>.
    /J Venom Anim Toxins Incl Trop Dis/. *20* (1): 44. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1186/1678-9199-20-44
    <https://doi.org/10.1186%2F1678-9199-20-44>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4197285
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4197285> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25320574
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25320574>. 
37. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Misasi2014_37-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Misasi2014_37-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Misasi2014_37-2>
    ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-Misasi2014_37-3> Misasi J, Sullivan NJ (October
    2014). "Camouflage and Misdirection: The Full-On Assault of Ebola
    Virus Disease"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4243531>. /Cell/.
    *159* (3): 477–86. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.cell.2014.10.006
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.cell.2014.10.006>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4243531
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4243531> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25417101
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25417101>. 
38. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-6> ^/*h*/
    <#cite_ref-Kuhl2012_38-7> Kühl A, Pöhlmann S (September 2012). "How
    Ebola virus counters the interferon system". /Zoonoses Public
    Health/. *59* (Supplement 2): 116–31. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1111/j.1863-2378.2012.01454.x
    <https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1863-2378.2012.01454.x>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 22958256
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22958256>. 
39. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Olejnik2011_39-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Olejnik2011_39-1> Olejnik J, Ryabchikova E, Corley RB,
    Mühlberger E (August 2011). "Intracellular events and cell fate in
    filovirus infection"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3172725>. /Viruses/.
    *3* (8): 1501–31. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3390/v3081501
    <https://doi.org/10.3390%2Fv3081501>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3172725
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3172725> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21927676
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21927676>. 
40. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Feldmann2005_40-0>* Feldmann, H.; Geisbert, T.
    W.; Jahrling, P. B.; Klenk, H.-D.; Netesov, S. V.; Peters, C. J.;
    Sanchez, A.; Swanepoel, R.; Volchkov, V. E. (2005). "Family
    Filoviridae". In Fauquet, C. M.; Mayo, M. A.; Maniloff, J.;
    Desselberger, U.; Ball, L. A. /Virus Taxonomy – Eighth Report of the
    International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses/. San Diego, US:
    Elsevier/Academic Press. pp. 645–53. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0-12-370200-3
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-12-370200-3>. 
41. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-6> ^/*h*/
    <#cite_ref-Funk2014_41-7> Funk DJ, Kumar A (November 2014). "Ebola
    virus disease: an update for anesthesiologists and intensivists"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4286619>. /Can J
    Anaesth/. *62* (1): 80–91. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1007/s12630-014-0257-z
    <https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs12630-014-0257-z>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4286619
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4286619> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25373801
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25373801>. 
42. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-42>* "Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)
    Transmission"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/index.html>. /CDC/. 5
    November 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141106022141/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/index.html>
    from the original on 6 November 2014. Retrieved 7 November 2014. 
43. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Drazen2014_43-0>* Drazen JM, Kanapathipillai
    R, Campion EW, Rubin EJ, Hammer SM, Morrissey S, Baden LR (November
    2014). "Ebola and quarantine". /N Engl J Med/. *371* (21): 2029–30.
    doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1056/NEJMe1413139
    <https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJMe1413139>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25347231
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25347231>. 
44. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-44>* Donald G. McNeil Jr. (3 October 2014).
    "Ask Well: How Does Ebola Spread? How Long Can the Virus Survive?"
    <http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/03/ebola-ask-well-spread-public-transit/>.
    The New York Times. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141024061521/http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/03/ebola-ask-well-spread-public-transit/>
    from the original on 24 October 2014. Retrieved 24 October 2014. 
45. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDCNOV2014_45-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDCNOV2014_45-1> "How Ebola Is Spread"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/pdf/infections-spread-by-air-or-droplets.pdf>
    (PDF). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 1 November
    2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170708092027/https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/pdf/infections-spread-by-air-or-droplets.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 8 July 2017. 
46. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014T_46-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014T_46-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014T_46-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014T_46-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014T_46-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014T_46-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014T_46-6>
    "Transmission" <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/>. /CDC/.
    17 October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141019024316/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/>
    from the original on 19 October 2014. Retrieved 18 October 2014. 
47. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Chowell2014_47-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Chowell2014_47-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Chowell2014_47-2>
    ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-Chowell2014_47-3> Chowell G, Nishiura H (October
    2014). "Transmission dynamics and control of Ebola virus disease
    (EVD): a review"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4207625>. /BMC Med/.
    *12* (1): 196. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1186/s12916-014-0196-0
    <https://doi.org/10.1186%2Fs12916-014-0196-0>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4207625
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4207625> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25300956
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25300956>. 
48. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Ost2015_48-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Ost2015_48-1> Osterholm, MT; Moore, KA; Kelley, NS;
    Brosseau, LM; Wong, G; Murphy, FA; Peters, CJ; LeDuc, JW; Russell,
    PK; Van Herp, M; Kapetshi, J; Muyembe, JJ; Ilunga, BK; Strong, JE;
    Grolla, A; Wolz, A; Kargbo, B; Kargbo, DK; Formenty, P; Sanders, DA;
    Kobinger, GP (19 February 2015). "Transmission of Ebola viruses:
    what we know and what we do not know"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4358015>. /mBio/. *6*
    (2): e00137. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1128/mBio.00137-15
    <https://doi.org/10.1128%2FmBio.00137-15>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4358015
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4358015> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25698835
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25698835>. 
49. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-49>* "Sexual transmission of the Ebola Virus :
    evidence and knowledge gaps"
    <http://www.who.int/reproductivehealth/topics/rtis/ebola-virus-semen/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. 4 April 2015. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150414084657/http://www.who.int/reproductivehealth/topics/rtis/ebola-virus-semen/en/>
    from the original on 14 April 2015. Retrieved 16 April 2015. 
50. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-50>* Wu, Brian (2 May 2015). "Ebola Can Be
    Transmitted Through Sex"
    <http://www.sciencetimes.com/articles/6000/20150502/ebola-transmitted-through-sex.htm>.
    /Science Times/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150502222419/http://www.sciencetimes.com/articles/6000/20150502/ebola-transmitted-through-sex.htm>
    from the original on 2 May 2015. Retrieved 3 May 2015. 
51. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-51>* Moses J Soka, Mary J Choi, April Baller,
    Stephen White, Emerson Rogers, Lawrence J Purpura et al. (2016).
    "Prevention of sexual transmission of Ebola in Liberia through a
    national semen testing and counselling programme for survivors: an
    analysis of Ebola virus RNA results and behavioural data"
    <http://www.thelancet.com/journals/langlo/article/PIIS2214-109X(16)30175-9/fulltext>.
    /Lancet Global Health/. *4*: e736–e743. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/S2214-109X(16)30175-9
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS2214-109X%2816%2930175-9>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 27596037
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27596037>. CS1 maint: Uses
    authors parameter (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Uses_authors_parameter>)
    CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Explicit_use_of_et_al.>)
52. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-52>* Varkey, JB; Shantha, JG; Crozier, I;
    Kraft, CS; Lyon, GM; Mehta, AK; Kumar, G; Smith, JR; Kainulainen,
    MH; Whitmer, S; Ströher, U; Uyeki, TM; Ribner, BS; Yeh, S (7 May
    2015). "Persistence of Ebola Virus in Ocular Fluid during
    Convalescence"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4547451>. /The New
    England Journal of Medicine/. *372*: 2423–27. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1056/NEJMoa1500306
    <https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJMoa1500306>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4547451
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4547451> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25950269
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25950269>. 
53. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDCPress2014_53-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDCPress2014_53-1> "CDC Telebriefing on Ebola outbreak in
    West Africa"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2014/t0728-ebola.html>. /CDC/.
    28 July 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140802025607/http://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2014/t0728-ebola.html>
    from the original on 2 August 2014. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
54. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2014T_54-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2014T_54-1> "Air travel is low-risk for Ebola
    transmission"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/notes/2014/ebola-travel/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. 14 August 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150119231747/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/notes/2014/ebola-travel/en/>
    from the original on 19 January 2015. 
55. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Chan2014_55-0>* Chan M (September 2014).
    "Ebola virus disease in West Africa – no early end to the outbreak".
    /N Engl J Med/. *371* (13): 1183–85. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1056/NEJMp1409859
    <https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJMp1409859>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25140856
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25140856>. 
56. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-56>* "Sierra Leone: a traditional healer and a
    funeral"
    <http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/ebola-6-months/sierra-leone/en/>.
    World Health Organization. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141006082559/http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/ebola-6-months/sierra-leone/en/>
    from the original on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 6 October 2014. 
57. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-57>* Tiaji Salaam-Blyther (26 August 2014).
    "The 2014 Ebola Outbreak: International and U.S. Responses"
    <https://fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R43697.pdf> (PDF). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140903122230/http://fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R43697.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 9 September
    2014. 
58. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-58>* Lashley, Felissa R.; Durham, Jerry D.,
    eds. (2007). /Emerging infectious diseases trends and issues/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=fsaWlKQ4OjcC&pg=PA141> (2nd ed.).
    New York: Springer. p. 141. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 9780826103505
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9780826103505>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160509224252/https://books.google.com/books?id=fsaWlKQ4OjcC&pg=PA141>
    from the original on 9 May 2016. 
59. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-59>* Alan J. Magill, G. Thomas Strickland,
    James H. Maguire, Edward T Ryan, Tom Solomon, eds. (2013). /Hunter's
    tropical medicine and emerging infectious disease/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=x15umovaD08C&pg=PA170> (9th ed.).
    London, New York: Elsevier. pp. 170–72. OCLC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCLC> 822525408
    <https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/822525408>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160520120141/https://books.google.com/books?id=x15umovaD08C&pg=PA170>
    from the original on 20 May 2016. CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter
    (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Uses_editors_parameter>)
60. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-CDCQA2014_60-0>* "Questions and Answers on
    Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/guinea/qa.html>. CDC.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170728032458/https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/guinea/qa.html>
    from the original on 28 July 2017. 
61. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-NBC-ebolaTX_61-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-NBC-ebolaTX_61-1> "Ebola in Texas: Second Health Care
    Worker Tests Positive"
    <http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/ebola-virus-outbreak/ebola-texas-second-health-care-worker-tests-positive-n226161>.
    /NBC News/. 15 October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141015211852/http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/ebola-virus-outbreak/ebola-texas-second-health-care-worker-tests-positive-n226161>
    from the original on 15 October 2014. 
62. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-62>* Irving WL (August 1995). "Ebola virus
    transmission"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1997188>.
    /International Journal of Experimental Pathology/. *76* (4): 225–26.
    PMC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 1997188
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1997188> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 7547434
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7547434>. 
63. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-virology1_63-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-virology1_63-1> "Transmission of Ebola virus"
    <http://www.virology.ws/2014/09/27/transmission-of-ebola-virus/>.
    /virology.ws/. 27 September 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160129111738/http://www.virology.ws/2014/09/27/transmission-of-ebola-virus/>
    from the original on 29 January 2016. Retrieved 22 January 2016. 
64. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-sb1_64-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-sb1_64-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-sb1_64-2> Weingartl, HM;
    Embury-Hyatt, C; Nfon, C; Leung, A; Smith, G; Kobinger, G (2012).
    "Transmission of Ebola virus from pigs to non-human primates"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3498927>. /Scientific
    Reports/. *2*: 811. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1038/srep00811
    <https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fsrep00811>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3498927
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3498927> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 23155478
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23155478>. 
65. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-CDC2014Bush_65-0>* "Risk of Exposure"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/exposure/index.html>. /CDC/. 12
    October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141016205158/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/exposure/index.html>
    from the original on 16 October 2014. Retrieved 18 October 2014. 
66. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-66>* "FAO warns of fruit bat risk in West
    African Ebola epidemic"
    <http://www.fao.org/news/story/en/item/239123/icode/>. /fao.org/. 21
    July 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141013151812/http://www.fao.org/news/story/en/item/239123/icode/>
    from the original on 13 October 2014. Retrieved 22 October 2014. 
67. *Jump up ^
    <#cite_ref-urlAfrican_monkey_meat_that_could_be_behind_the_next_HIV_–_Health_News_–_Health_&_Families_–_The_Independent_67-0>*
    Williams E. "African monkey meat that could be behind the next HIV"
    <https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/african-monkey-meat-that-could-be-behind-the-next-hiv-7786152.html>.
    /Health News – Health & Families/. The Independent. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170622133307/http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/african-monkey-meat-that-could-be-behind-the-next-hiv-7786152.html>
    from the original on 22 June 2017. "25 people in Bakaklion, Cameroon
    killed due to eating of ape" 
68. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/
    <#cite_ref-urlEbolavirus_–_Pathogen_Safety_Data_Sheets_68-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-urlEbolavirus_–_Pathogen_Safety_Data_Sheets_68-1>
    "Ebolavirus – Pathogen Safety Data Sheets"
    <http://www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/lab-bio/res/psds-ftss/ebola-eng.php>.
    Public Health Agency of Canada. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140820211755/http://www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/lab-bio/res/psds-ftss/ebola-eng.php>
    from the original on 20 August 2014. Retrieved 22 August 2014. 
69. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Gon2007_69-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Gon2007_69-1> Gonzalez JP, Pourrut X, Leroy E (2007).
    "Wildlife and Emerging Zoonotic Diseases: The Biology, Circumstances
    and Consequences of Cross-Species Transmission". /Current Topics in
    Microbiology and Immunology/. Ebolavirus and other filoviruses.
    *315*: 363–87. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1007/978-3-540-70962-6_15
    <https://doi.org/10.1007%2F978-3-540-70962-6_15>. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-3-540-70961-9
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-3-540-70961-9>.
    PMID <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 17848072
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17848072>. 
70. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Weingartl_2013_70-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Weingartl_2013_70-1> ^/*c*/
    <#cite_ref-Weingartl_2013_70-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-Weingartl_2013_70-3> ^/*e*/
    <#cite_ref-Weingartl_2013_70-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-Weingartl_2013_70-5> Weingartl HM, Nfon C, Kobinger G
    (May 2013). "Review of Ebola virus infections in domestic animals".
    /Dev Biol/. *135*: 211–18. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1159/000178495
    <https://doi.org/10.1159%2F000178495>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 23689899
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23689899>. 
71. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-71>* Laupland KB, Valiquette L (May 2014).
    "Ebola virus disease"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4173971>. /Can J
    Infect Dis Med Microbiol/. *25* (3): 128–29. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4173971
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4173971> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25285105
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25285105>. 
72. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Pourrut2005_72-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Pourrut2005_72-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Pourrut2005_72-2>
    Pourrut X, Kumulungui B, Wittmann T, Moussavou G, Délicat A, Yaba P,
    Nkoghe D, Gonzalez JP, Leroy EM (June 2005). "The natural history of
    Ebola virus in Africa". /Microbes Infect/. *7* (7–8): 1005–14. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.micinf.2005.04.006
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.micinf.2005.04.006>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16002313
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16002313>. 
73. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-73>* Swanepoel R, Leman PA, Burt FJ,
    Zachariades NA, Braack LE, Ksiazek TG, Rollin PE, Zaki SR, Peters CJ
    (October 1996). "Experimental inoculation of plants and animals with
    Ebola virus" <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2639914>.
    /Emerg. Infect. Dis/. *2* (4): 321–25. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid0204.960407
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid0204.960407>. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Serial_Number> 1080-6040
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1080-6040>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2639914
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2639914> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 8969248
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8969248>. 
74. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-74>* Leroy EM, Kumulungui B, Pourrut X,
    Rouquet P, Hassanin A, Yaba P, Délicat A, Paweska JT, Gonzalez JP,
    Swanepoel R (December 2005). "Fruit bats as reservoirs of Ebola
    virus". /Nature/. *438* (7068): 575–76. Bibcode
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bibcode>:2005Natur.438..575L
    <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2005Natur.438..575L>. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1038/438575a
    <https://doi.org/10.1038%2F438575a>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16319873
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16319873>. 
75. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Olival2013_75-0>* Olival KJ, Islam A, Yu M,
    Anthony SJ, Epstein JH, Khan SA, Khan SU, Crameri G, Wang LF, Lipkin
    WI, Luby SP, Daszak P (February 2013). "Ebola virus antibodies in
    fruit bats, Bangladesh"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3559038>. /Emerg.
    Infect. Dis/. *19* (2): 270–73. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1902.120524
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1902.120524>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3559038
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3559038> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 23343532
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23343532>. 
76. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Morvan1999_76-0>* Morvan JM, Deubel V, Gounon
    P, Nakouné E, Barrière P, Murri S, Perpète O, Selekon B, Coudrier D,
    Gautier-Hion A, Colyn M, Volehkov V (December 1999). "Identification
    of Ebola virus sequences present as RNA or DNA in organs of
    terrestrial small mammals of the Central African Republic".
    /Microbes and Infection/. *1* (14): 1193–201. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/S1286-4579(99)00242-7
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS1286-4579%2899%2900242-7>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 10580275
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10580275>. 
77. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Groseth2007_77-0>* Groseth A, Feldmann H,
    Strong JE (September 2007). "The ecology of Ebola virus". /Trends
    Microbiol/. *15* (9): 408–16. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.tim.2007.08.001
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.tim.2007.08.001>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 17698361
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17698361>. 
78. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Ansari2014_78-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Ansari2014_78-1> Ansari AA (September 2014). "Clinical
    features and pathobiology of Ebolavirus infection". /J Autoimmun/.
    *55*: 1–9. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.jaut.2014.09.001
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.jaut.2014.09.001>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25260583
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260583>. 
79. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-isbn0-7910-8505-8_79-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-isbn0-7910-8505-8_79-1> Smith, Tara (2005). /Ebola
    (Deadly Diseases and Epidemics)/. Chelsea House Publications. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0-7910-8505-8
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-7910-8505-8>. 
80. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Ramanan2011_80-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Ramanan2011_80-1> Ramanan P, Shabman RS, Brown CS,
    Amarasinghe GK, Basler CF, Leung DW (September 2011). "Filoviral
    immune evasion mechanisms"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3187693>. /Viruses/.
    *3* (9): 1634–49. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3390/v3091634
    <https://doi.org/10.3390%2Fv3091634>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3187693
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3187693> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21994800
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21994800>. 
81. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Kortepeter2011_81-0>* Kortepeter MG, Bausch
    DG, Bray M (November 2011). "Basic clinical and laboratory features
    of filoviral hemorrhagic fever"
    <http://jid.oxfordjournals.org/content/204/suppl_3/S810.long>. /J
    Infect Dis/. *204* (Supplement 3): S810–16. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1093/infdis/jir299
    <https://doi.org/10.1093%2Finfdis%2Fjir299>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21987756
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21987756>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150104122512/http://jid.oxfordjournals.org/content/204/suppl_3/S810.long>
    from the original on 4 January 2015. 
82. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Geisbert1995_82-0>* Geisbert TW, Jahrling PB
    (December 1995). "Differentiation of filoviruses by electron
    microscopy". /Virus Res/. *39* (2–3): 129–50. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/0168-1702(95)00080-1
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2F0168-1702%2895%2900080-1>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 8837880
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8837880>. 
83. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-CDC2014Diag_83-0>* "Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever
    Diagnosis" <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/diagnosis/index.html>.
    /CDC/. 28 January 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140924150049/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/diagnosis/index.html>
    from the original on 24 September 2014. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
84. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Grolla2005_84-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Grolla2005_84-1> Grolla A, Lucht A, Dick D, Strong JE,
    Feldmann H (September 2005). "Laboratory diagnosis of Ebola and
    Marburg hemorrhagic fever". /Bull Soc Pathol Exot/. *98* (3):
    205–09. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16267962
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16267962>. 
85. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-85>* "Liberia: New Ebola mobile lab speeds up
    diagnosis and improves care,"
    <http://www.who.int/features/2014/liberia-mobile-ebola-lab/en/>.
    /WHO.int/. W.H.O. October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141024235048/http://who.int/features/2014/liberia-mobile-ebola-lab/en/>
    from the original on 24 October 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
86. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-WHO2015Test_86-0>* "First Antigen Rapid Test
    for Ebola through Emergency Assessment and Eligible for Procurement"
    <http://www.who.int/medicines/ebola-treatment/1st_antigen_RT_Ebola/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150220203131/http://www.who.int/medicines/ebola-treatment/1st_antigen_RT_Ebola/en/>
    from the original on 20 February 2015. Retrieved 20 February 2015. 
87. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Harrison_87-0>* Longo, DL; Kasper, DL;
    Jameson, JL; Fauci, AS; Hauser, SL; Loscalzo, J, eds. (2012).
    "Chapter 197". /Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine/ (18th
    ed.). McGraw-Hill. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0-07-174889-X
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-07-174889-X>. 
88. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-88>* "Viral Hemorrhagic Fever"
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20130420174306/http://www.sfcdcp.org/document.html?id=316>.
    /San Francisco Department of Public Health/. Communicable Disease
    Control and Prevention. Archived from the original on 20 April 2013.
    Retrieved 17 August 2014. CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status
    unknown (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_BOT:_original-url_status_unknown>)
89. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Gear1989_89-0>* Gear JH (May–June 1989).
    "Clinical aspects of African viral hemorrhagic fevers". /Rev Infect
    Dis/. *11* (Supplement 4): S777–82. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1093/clinids/11.supplement_4.s777
    <https://doi.org/10.1093%2Fclinids%2F11.supplement_4.s777>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 2665013
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2665013>. 
90. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Gear1978_90-0>* Gear JH, Ryan J, Rossouw E
    (February 1978). "A consideration of the diagnosis of dangerous
    infectious fevers in South Africa". /South African Medical Journal/.
    *53* (7): 235–37. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 565951
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/565951>. 
91. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Bogomolov1998_91-0>* Bogomolov BP (1998).
    "Differential diagnosis of infectious diseases with hemorrhagic
    syndrome". /Terapevticheskii arkhiv/. *70* (4): 63–68. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 9612907
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9612907>. 
92. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014P_92-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014P_92-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014P_92-2> "Ebola
    Hemorrhagic Fever Prevention"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/index.html>. /CDC/. 31
    July 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140904125431/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/prevention/index.html>
    from the original on 4 September 2014. Retrieved 2 August 2014. 
93. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Oct2014CDC_93-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Oct2014CDC_93-1> "Guidance on Personal Protective
    Equipment To Be Used by Healthcare Workers During Management of
    Patients with Ebola Virus Disease in U.S. Hospitals, Including
    Procedures for Putting On (Donning) and Removing (Doffing)"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/procedures-for-ppe.html>.
    /cdc.gov/. 20 October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141022024557/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/procedures-for-ppe.html>
    from the original on 22 October 2014. Retrieved 22 October 2014. 
94. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDCBook1998_94-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDCBook1998_94-1> C. J. Peters (December 1998).
    /Infection Control for Viral Haemorrhagic Fevers in the African
    Health Care Setting/
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/abroad/pdf/african-healthcare-setting-vhf.pdf>
    (PDF). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170708093022/https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/abroad/pdf/african-healthcare-setting-vhf.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 8 July 2017. 
95. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-95>* Ebola medics 'better trained in Sierra
    Leone than Spain'
    <http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11155840/Ebola-medics-better-trained-in-Sierra-Leone-than-Spain.html>
    The Telegraph, by Fiona Govan, 11 October 2014
96. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-96>* This Is How Ebola Patients Are Equipping
    Their Homes
    <http://time.com/3481394/equipping-homes-to-treat-ebola-patients/>
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150305172616/http://time.com/3481394/equipping-homes-to-treat-ebola-patients/>
    5 March 2015 at the Wayback Machine
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>. Time magazine, by
    Alexandra Sifferlin, 9 October 2014
97. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-97>* Nossiter and Kanter (10 October 2014).
    "Doctors Without Borders Evolves as It Forms the Vanguard in Ebola
    Fight"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/11/world/africa/doctors-without-borders-evolves-as-it-forms-the-vanguard-in-ebola-fight-.html?_r=0>.
    /The New York Times
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141014172320/http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/11/world/africa/doctors-without-borders-evolves-as-it-forms-the-vanguard-in-ebola-fight-.html?_r=0>
    from the original on 14 October 2014. Retrieved 12 October 2014. 
98. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Infection_Guidance_98-0>* "Infection
    Prevention and Control Guidance for Care of Patients with Suspected
    or Confirmed Filovirus Haemorrhagic Fever in Health-care Settings
    with Focus on Ebola"
    <http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/130596/1/WHO_HIS_SDS_2014.4_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1>
    (PDF). /World Health Organization/. World Health Organization.
    August 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140821182137/http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/130596/1/WHO_HIS_SDS_2014.4_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1>
    (PDF) from the original on 21 August 2014. Retrieved 21 August 2014. 
99. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-99>* "Ebola – 5 tips to avoid the deadly
    disease"
    <https://plan-international.org/about-plan/resources/news/ebola-outbreak-5-tips-to-avoid-the-deadly-disease/>.
    Plan International. 6 September 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150324061050/http://plan-international.org/about-plan/resources/news/ebola-outbreak-5-tips-to-avoid-the-deadly-disease/>
    from the original on 24 March 2015. 
100. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Rouquet_2005_100-0>* Rouquet P, Froment JM,
    Bermejo M, Kilbourn A, Karesh W, Reed P, Kumulungui B, Yaba P,
    Délicat A, Rollin PE, Leroy EM (February 2005). "Wild animal
    mortality monitoring and human Ebola outbreaks, Gabon and Republic
    of Congo, 2001–2003"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/EID/vol11no02/04-0533.htm> (Free full
    text). /Emerg. Infect. Dis/. *11* (2): 283–90. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1102.040533
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1102.040533>. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Serial_Number> 1080-6040
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1080-6040>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3320460
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3320460> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15752448
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15752448>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20090424024425/http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/EID/vol11no02/04-0533.htm>
    from the original on 24 April 2009. 
101. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-CDC1998_101-0>* Centers for Disease Control
    and Prevention and World Health Organization (1998). /Infection
    Control for Viral Haemorrhagic Fevers in the African Health Care
    Setting/
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/abroad/pdf/african-healthcare-setting-vhf.pdf>
    (PDF). Atlanta, Georgia, US: Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140411222536/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/abroad/pdf/african-healthcare-setting-vhf.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 11 April 2014. Retrieved 8 February 2013. 
102. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-url_www.who.int_burial_102-0>* "Section 7: Use
    Safe Burial Practices"
    <http://www.who.int/csr/resources/publications/ebola/whoemcesr982sec7-9.pdf>
    (PDF). /Information resources on Ebola virus disease/. World Health
    Organization. 1 June 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150226091100/http://www.who.int/csr/resources/publications/ebola/whoemcesr982sec7-9.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 26 February 2015. 
103. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-103>* Blaine Harden (24 December 2000).
    "Ebola's Shadow"
    <http://partners.nytimes.com/library/magazine/home/20001224mag-ebola.html>.
    /The New York Times
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141020200433/http://partners.nytimes.com/library/magazine/home/20001224mag-ebola.html>
    from the original on 20 October 2014. Retrieved 12 October 2014. 
104. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-104>* Faye SL (September 2014). "How
    anthropologists help medics fight Ebola in Guinea"
    <http://www.scidev.net/global/cooperation/feature/anthropologists-medics-ebola-guinea.html>.
    SciDev.Net. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141006112752/http://www.scidev.net/global/cooperation/feature/anthropologists-medics-ebola-guinea.html>
    from the original on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 3 October 2014. 
105. *Jump up ^
    <#cite_ref-urlWHO_|_West_Africa_–_Ebola_virus_disease_105-0>* "West
    Africa – Ebola virus disease Update: Travel and transport"
    <http://www.who.int/ith/updates/20140421/en/>. /International travel
    and health/. World Health Organization. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140729034008/http://www.who.int/ith/updates/20140421/en/>
    from the original on 29 July 2014. 
106. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC_monitor_movement_106-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC_monitor_movement_106-1> ^/*c*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC_monitor_movement_106-2> "Monitoring Symptoms and
    Controlling Movement to Stop Spread of Ebola"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2014/fs1027-monitoring-symptoms-controlling-movement.html>.
    cdc.gov. 27 October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170708091445/https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2014/fs1027-monitoring-symptoms-controlling-movement.html>
    from the original on 8 July 2017. 
107. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-OSHA_107-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-OSHA_107-1> "Ebola: Control and Prevention"
    <https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/ebola/control_prevention.html>. OSHA.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141109145135/https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/ebola/control_prevention.html>
    from the original on 9 November 2014. Retrieved 9 November 2014. 
108. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-108>* "About Quarantine and Isolation"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/quarantine/quarantineisolation.html>.
    /cdc.gov/. 28 August 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141020041517/http://www.cdc.gov/quarantine/quarantineisolation.html>
    from the original on 20 October 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
109. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-109>* Sompayrac, Lauren (2002). /How
    pathogenic viruses work/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=PrOHLe35qNEC&pg=PA87> (3 ed.).
    Boston: Jones and Bartlett Publishers. p. 87. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 9780763720827
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9780763720827>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160522025657/https://books.google.com/books?id=PrOHLe35qNEC&pg=PA87>
    from the original on 22 May 2016. 
110. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid16597410_110-0>* Alazard-Dany N, Ottmann
    Terrangle M, Volchkov V (April 2006). "[Ebola and Marburg viruses:
    the humans strike back]". /Med Sci/ (in French). *22* (4): 405–10.
    doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1051/medsci/2006224405
    <https://doi.org/10.1051%2Fmedsci%2F2006224405>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16597410
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16597410>. 
111. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-111>* "Ebola virus disease update – west
    Africa" <http://www.who.int/csr/don/2014_08_19_ebola/en/>. /World
    Health Organization/. 19 August 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141022110953/http://www.who.int/csr/don/2014_08_19_ebola/en/>
    from the original on 22 October 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
112. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-112>* Schultz, edited by Kristi Koenig, Carl
    (2009). /Koenig and Schultz's disaster medicine : comprehensive
    principles and practices/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=IfpOtV-FAl4C&pg=PA209>.
    Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 209. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 9780521873673
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9780521873673>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160515175653/https://books.google.com/books?id=IfpOtV-FAl4C&pg=PA209>
    from the original on 15 May 2016. CS1 maint: Extra text: authors
    list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Extra_text:_authors_list>)
113. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-113>* "Ebola 2014 – New Challenges, New Global
    Response and Responsibility"
    <http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp1409903?query=featured_ebola>.
    /NEJM/. New England Journal of Medicine. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141016053840/http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp1409903?query=featured_ebola>
    from the original on 16 October 2014. Retrieved 15 September 2014. 
114. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-114>* "What is Contact Tracing?"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/pdf/contact-tracing.pdf> (PDF).
    /CDC/. Centers for Disease Control. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140912114723/http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/pdf/contact-tracing.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 12 September 2014. Retrieved 15 September
    2014. 
115. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Choi2013_115-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Choi2013_115-1> Choi JH, Croyle MA (December 2013).
    "Emerging targets and novel approaches to Ebola virus prophylaxis
    and treatment"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3833964>. /BioDrugs/.
    *27* (6): 565–83. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1007/s40259-013-0046-1
    <https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs40259-013-0046-1>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3833964
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3833964> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 23813435
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23813435>. 
116. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-FDA2014R_116-0>* "FDA warns consumers about
    fraudulent Ebola treatment products"
    <http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm410086.htm>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140819083214/http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm410086.htm>
    from the original on 19 August 2014. Retrieved 20 August 2014. 
117. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-117>* "Inspections, Compliance, Enforcement,
    and Criminal Investigations"
    <http://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/2014/ucm416051.htm>.
    /FDA/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141008213137/http://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/2014/ucm416051.htm>
    from the original on 8 October 2014. Retrieved 9 October 2014. 
118. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Clark_2012_118-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Clark_2012_118-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Clark_2012_118-2>
    ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-Clark_2012_118-3> ^/*e*/
    <#cite_ref-Clark_2012_118-4> ^/*f*/ <#cite_ref-Clark_2012_118-5>
    Clark DV, Jahrling PB, Lawler JV (September 2012). "Clinical
    management of filovirus-infected patients"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3499825>. /Viruses/.
    *4* (9): 1668–86. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3390/v4091668
    <https://doi.org/10.3390%2Fv4091668>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3499825
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3499825> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 23170178
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23170178>. 
119. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-119>* "Ebola messages for the general public"
    <http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/messages/en/>. /World Health
    Organization/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141025120028/http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/messages/en/>
    from the original on 25 October 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
120. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-120>* "Annex 18. Transmission risk reduction
    of filoviruses in home-care settings"
    <http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/Annex_18_risk_reduction_home_care.pdf?ua=1>
    (PDF). World Health Organization. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141026092619/http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/Annex_18_risk_reduction_home_care.pdf?ua=1>
    (PDF) from the original on 26 October 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
121. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Elsevier/Academic_Press_121-0>* C.M. Fauquet
    (2005). /Virus taxonomy classification and nomenclature of viruses;
    8th report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=9Wy7Jgy5RWYC&pg=PA648>. Oxford:
    Elsevier/Academic Press. p. 648. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 9780080575483
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9780080575483>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160604013646/https://books.google.com/books?id=9Wy7Jgy5RWYC&pg=PA648>
    from the original on 4 June 2016. 
122. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-122>* "More or Less behind the stats Ebola"
    <http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0244jdt>. /www.bbc.co.uk/. BBC
    World Service. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140903044359/http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0244jdt>
    from the original on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 8 October 2014. 
123. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-123>* "Who, What, Why: How many people
    infected with ebola die?"
    <http://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-magazine-monitor-28713923>. BBC News.
    9 August 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140810195850/http://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-magazine-monitor-28713923>
    from the original on 10 August 2014. 
124. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-124>* Wiwanitkit, S; Wiwanitkit, V (2015).
    "Ocular problem in Ebola virus infection: A short review"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4487942>. /Saudi
    Journal of Ophthalmology/. *29* (3): 225–26. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.sjopt.2015.02.006
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.sjopt.2015.02.006>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4487942
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4487942> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 26155084
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26155084>. 
125. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-VarkeyShantha2015_125-0>* Varkey, Jay B.;
    Shantha, Jessica G.; Crozier, Ian; Kraft, Colleen S.; Lyon, G.
    Marshall; Mehta, Aneesh K.; Kumar, Gokul; Smith, Justine R.;
    Kainulainen, Markus H.; Whitmer, Shannon; Ströher, Ute; Uyeki,
    Timothy M.; Ribner, Bruce S.; Yeh, Steven (2015). "Persistence of
    Ebola Virus in Ocular Fluid during Convalescence"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4547451>. /New England
    Journal of Medicine/. *372* (25): 2423–27. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1056/NEJMoa1500306
    <https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJMoa1500306>. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Serial_Number> 0028-4793
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0028-4793>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4547451
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4547451> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25950269
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25950269>. 
126. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-MackayArden2015_126-0>* Mackay, Ian M; Arden,
    Katherine E (2015). "Ebola virus in the semen of convalescent men".
    /The Lancet Infectious Diseases/. *15* (2): 149–50. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/S1473-3099(14)71033-3
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS1473-3099%2814%2971033-3>. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Serial_Number> 1473-3099
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1473-3099>. 
127. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-127>* Rogstad, KE; Tunbridge, A (February
    2015). "Ebola virus as a sexually transmitted infection". /Current
    Opinion in Infectious Diseases/. *28* (1): 83–85. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1097/qco.0000000000000135
    <https://doi.org/10.1097%2Fqco.0000000000000135>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25501666
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25501666>. 
128. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-128>* Christie, A; Davies-Wayne, GJ;
    Cordier-Lasalle, T; Blackley, DJ; Laney, AS; Williams, DE; Shinde,
    SA; Badio, M; Lo, T; Mate, SE; Ladner, JT; Wiley, MR; Kugelman, JR;
    Palacios, G; Holbrook, MR; Janosko, KB; de Wit, E; van Doremalen, N;
    Munster, VJ; Pettitt, J; Schoepp, RJ; Verhenne, L; Evlampidou, I;
    Kollie, KK; Sieh, SB; Gasasira, A; Bolay, F; Kateh, FN; Nyenswah,
    TG; De Cock, KM; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, (CDC)
    (8 May 2015). "Possible sexual transmission of Ebola virus –
    Liberia, 2015". /MMWR. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report/. *64*
    (17): 479–81. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25950255
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25950255>. 
129. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-129>* Sprecher, A (14 October 2015). "Handle
    Survivors with Care". /The New England Journal of Medicine/:
    151014140056007. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1056/NEJMe1512928
    <https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJMe1512928>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 26465064
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26465064>. 
130. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-130>* "Neuro complications cited in UK nurse's
    Ebola case"
    <http://www.cidrap.umn.edu/news-perspective/2015/10/neuro-complications-cited-uk-nurses-ebola-case>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20151017211314/http://www.cidrap.umn.edu/news-perspective/2015/10/neuro-complications-cited-uk-nurses-ebola-case>
    from the original on 17 October 2015. Retrieved 19 October 2015. 
131. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-131>* Scottr, Janet et. al (April 2016).
    "Post-Ebola Syndrome, Sierra Leone"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4806950>. /Emerg.
    Infect. Dis/. *22* (4): 641–46. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid2204.151302
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid2204.151302>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4806950
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4806950> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 26983037
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26983037>. 
132. *Jump up ^
    <#cite_ref-Peterson_AT,_Bauer_JT,_Mills_JN_2004_40–47_132-0>*
    Peterson AT, Bauer JT, Mills JN (2004). "Ecologic and Geographic
    Distribution of Filovirus Disease"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3322747>. /Emerg.
    Infect. Dis/. *10* (1): 40–47. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1001.030125
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1001.030125>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3322747
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3322747> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15078595
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15078595>. 
133. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-who's_first_encounter_133-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-who's_first_encounter_133-1> "Ebola haemorrhagic fever in
    Sudan, 1976"
    <http://whqlibdoc.who.int/bulletin/1978/Vol56-No2/bulletin_1978_56(2)_247-270.pdf>
    (PDF). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141013194802/http://whqlibdoc.who.int/bulletin/1978/Vol56-No2/bulletin_1978_56(2)_247-270.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 13 October 2014. 
134. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-134>* Hewlett, Barry; Hewlett, Bonnie (2007).
    /Ebola, Culture and Politics: The Anthropology of an Emerging
    Disease/
    <https://books.google.com/?id=aboFAAAAQBAJ&pg=PA103&lpg=PA103&dq=congo+yambuku#v=onepage&q=congo%20yambuku&f=false>.
    Cengage Learning. p. 103. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 1111797315
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/1111797315>.
    Retrieved 31 July 2014. 
135. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Feldmann2003_135-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Feldmann2003_135-1> Feldmann H, Jones S, Klenk HD,
    Schnittler HJ (August 2003). "Ebola virus: from discovery to
    vaccine". /Nature Reviews Immunology/. *3* (8): 677–85. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1038/nri1154
    <https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fnri1154>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12974482
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12974482>. 
136. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-whqlibdoc.who.int_136-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-whqlibdoc.who.int_136-1> "Ebola haemorrhagic fever in
    Zaire, 1976"
    <http://whqlibdoc.who.int/bulletin/1978/Vol56-No2/bulletin_1978_56(2)_271-293.pdf>
    (PDF). /Bull. World Health Organ/. *56* (2): 271–93. 1978. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2395567
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2395567> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 307456
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/307456>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140808213715/http://whqlibdoc.who.int/bulletin/1978/Vol56-No2/bulletin_1978_56%282%29_271-293.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on 8 August 2014. 
137. *Jump up ^
    <#cite_ref-urlOutbreak_of_Ebola_Viral_Hemorrhagic_Fever_–_Zaire,_1995_137-0>*
    Centers for Disease Control Prevention (CDC) (1995). "Outbreak of
    Ebola Viral Hemorrhagic Fever – Zaire, 1995"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/00037078.htm>. /Morbidity
    and Mortality Weekly Report/. *44* (19): 381–2. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 7739512
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7739512>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170625191457/https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/00037078.htm>
    from the original on 25 June 2017. 
138. *Jump up ^
    <#cite_ref-urlMabalo_Lokela_Archives_–_Political_Moll_138-0>* Elezra
    M. "Ebola: The Truth Behind The Outbreak (Video) l"
    <http://politicalmoll.com/tag/mabalo-lokela/>. /Mabalo Lokela
    Archives – Political Mol/. 
139. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Stimola_139-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Stimola_139-1> Stimola A (2011). /Ebola/ (1st ed.). New
    York: Rosen Pub. pp. 31, 52. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-1435894334
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1435894334>. 
140. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Piot_2012_140-0>* Piot P, Marshall R (2012).
    /No time to lose: a life in pursuit of deadly viruses/ (1st ed.).
    New York: W.W. Norton & Co. pp. 30, 90. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0393063165
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0393063165>. 
141. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Piot-one_141-0>* Peter Piot (11 August 2014).
    "Part one: A virologist's tale of Africa's first encounter with
    Ebola"
    <http://news.sciencemag.org/africa/2014/08/part-one-virologists-tale-africas-first-encounter-ebola>.
    /ScienceInsider/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141009050901/http://news.sciencemag.org/africa/2014/08/part-one-virologists-tale-africas-first-encounter-ebola>
    from the original on 9 October 2014. Free access
142. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Piot-two_142-0>* Peter Piot (13 August 2014).
    "Part two: A virologist's tale of Africa's first encounter with
    Ebola"
    <http://news.sciencemag.org/africa/2014/08/part-two-virologists-tale-africas-first-encounter-ebola>.
    /ScienceInsider/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141116233325/http://news.sciencemag.org/africa/2014/08/part-two-virologists-tale-africas-first-encounter-ebola>
    from the original on 16 November 2014. Free access
143. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-143>* Bardi, Jason Socrates. "Death Called a
    River" <http://www.scripps.edu/newsandviews/e_20020114/ebola1.html>.
    /The Scripps Research Institute/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140802170848/http://www.scripps.edu/newsandviews/e_20020114/ebola1.html>
    from the original on 2 August 2014. Retrieved 9 October 2014. 
144. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-hz_144-0>* Preston, Richard
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Preston> (20 July 1995). /The
    Hot Zone <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hot_Zone>/. Anchor Books
    (Random House <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_House>). p. 117.
    "Karl Johnson named it Ebola" 
145. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-observer_145-0>* Bredow, Rafaela von;
    Hackenbroch, Veronika (4 October 2014). "'In 1976 I Discovered
    Ebola – Now I Fear an Unimaginable Tragedy'"
    <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/oct/04/ebola-zaire-peter-piot-outbreak>.
    /The Observer <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Observer>/.
    Guardian Media Group
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guardian_Media_Group>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170103105318/https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/oct/04/ebola-zaire-peter-piot-outbreak>
    from the original on 3 January 2017. 
146. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-emedicine.com_146-0>* King JW (2 April 2008).
    "Ebola Virus" <http://www.emedicine.com/MED/topic626.htm>.
    /eMedicine/. WebMD. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20080928063653/http://www.emedicine.com/med/TOPIC626.HTM>
    from the original on 28 September 2008. Retrieved 6 October 2008. 
147. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid14579469_147-0>* Formenty P, Libama F,
    Epelboin A, Allarangar Y, Leroy E, Moudzeo H, Tarangonia P, Molamou
    A, Lenzi M, Ait-Ikhlef K, Hewlett B, Roth C, Grein T (2003).
    "[Outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever in the Republic of the Congo,
    2003: a new strategy?]". /Med Trop (Mars)/ (in French). *63* (3):
    291–95. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 14579469
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14579469>. 
148. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-148>* "Russian Scientist Dies in Ebola
    Accident at Former Weapons Lab"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2004/05/25/world/russian-scientist-dies-in-ebola-accident-at-former-weapons-lab.html>.
    /The New York Times
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141017035417/http://www.nytimes.com/2004/05/25/world/russian-scientist-dies-in-ebola-accident-at-former-weapons-lab.html>
    from the original on 17 October 2014. Retrieved 12 October 2014. 
149. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-CBCRadioSept2007_149-0>* "Ebola outbreak in
    Congo"
    <http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/ebola-outbreak-in-congo-1.648593>.
    /CBC.ca/. CBC/Radio-Canada. 12 September 2007. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141119105248/http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/ebola-outbreak-in-congo-1.648593>
    from the original on 19 November 2014. 
150. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/
    <#cite_ref-Mystery_DR_Congo_fever_kills_100_150-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Mystery_DR_Congo_fever_kills_100_150-1> "Mystery DR Congo
    fever kills 100" <http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/6973013.stm>.
    BBC News. 31 August 2007. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20071111024636/http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/6973013.stm>
    from the original on 11 November 2007. 
151. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-151>* "Ebola Outbreak Confirmed in Congo"
    <https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn12624-ebola-outbreak-confirmed-in-congo.html>.
    /NewScientist.com/. 11 September 2007. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150618230241/http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn12624-ebola-outbreak-confirmed-in-congo.html>
    from the original on 18 June 2015. 
152. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-152>* "Uganda: Deadly Ebola Outbreak Confirmed
    – UN" <http://allafrica.com/stories/200711301070.html>. UN News
    Service. 30 November 2007. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20080303200540/http://allafrica.com/stories/200711301070.html>
    from the original on 3 March 2008. Retrieved 25 February 2008. 
153. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-153>* "DRC Confirms Ebola Outbreak"
    <http://www.voanews.com/content/Ebola-drc-outbreak/1492233.html>.
    Voanews.com. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20120915235056/http://www.voanews.com/content/Ebola-drc-outbreak/1492233.html>
    from the original on 15 September 2012. Retrieved 15 April 2013. 
154. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-154>* "WHO | Ebola outbreak in Democratic
    Republic of Congo"
    <http://www.who.int/csr/don/2012_08_18/en/index.html>. World Health
    Organization. 17 August 2012. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20131027035536/http://www.who.int/csr/don/2012_08_18/en/index.html>
    from the original on 27 October 2013. Retrieved 15 April 2013. 
155. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-155>* "WHO | Ebola outbreak in Democratic
    Republic of Congo – update"
    <http://www.who.int/csr/don/2012_08_21/en/index.html>. World Health
    Organization. 21 August 2012. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20121216144914/http://www.who.int/csr/don/2012_08_21/en/index.html>
    from the original on 16 December 2012. Retrieved 15 April 2013. 
156. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-156>* Castillo M (2012). "Ebola virus claims
    31 lives in Democratic Republic of the Congo"
    <http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-504763_162-57512216-10391704/ebola-virus-claims-31-lives-in-democratic-republic-of-the-congo/>.
    United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States>: CBS
    News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CBS_News>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20120914015301/http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-504763_162-57512216-10391704/ebola-virus-claims-31-lives-in-democratic-republic-of-the-congo/>
    from the original on 14 September 2012. Retrieved 14 September 2012. 
157. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-2014_DRC_Who_Strain_157-0>* "Virological
    Analysis: no link between Ebola outbreaks in west Africa and
    Democratic Republic of Congo"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/ebola/2-september-2014/en/>.
    World Health Organization. 2 September 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141121121328/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/ebola/2-september-2014/en/>
    from the original on 21 November 2014. 
158. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-reuters1511_158-0>* "Congo declares its Ebola
    outbreak over"
    <http://uk.reuters.com/article/2014/11/15/health-ebola-congodemocratic-idUKL6N0T50F720141115>.
    reuters. 15 November 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141129065140/http://uk.reuters.com/article/2014/11/15/health-ebola-congodemocratic-idUKL6N0T50F720141115>
    from the original on 29 November 2014. Retrieved 15 November 2014. 
159. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-159>* "Democratic Republic of the Congo: The
    country that knows how to beat Ebola"
    <http://www.who.int/features/2014/drc-beats-ebola/en/>. World Health
    Organization. December 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150226005300/http://www.who.int/features/2014/drc-beats-ebola/en/>
    from the original on 26 February 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2015. 
160. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2014Out_160-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2014Out_160-1> "Guidelines for Evaluation of US
    Patients Suspected of Having Ebola Virus Disease"
    <http://emergency.cdc.gov/han/han00364.asp>. /CDC/. 1 August 2014.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140808075214/http://emergency.cdc.gov/han/han00364.asp>
    from the original on 8 August 2014. Retrieved 5 August 2014. 
161. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Baize2014_161-0>* Baize S, Pannetier D,
    Oestereich L, Rieger T, Koivogui L, Magassouba N, Soropogui B, Sow
    MS, Keïta S, De Clerck H, Tiffany A, Dominguez G, Loua M, Traoré A,
    Kolié M, Malano ER, Heleze E, Bocquin A, Mély S, Raoul H, Caro V,
    Cadar D, Gabriel M, Pahlmann M, Tappe D, Schmidt-Chanasit J, Impouma
    B, Diallo AK, Formenty P, Van Herp M, Günther S (October 2014).
    "Emergence of Zaire Ebola Virus Disease in Guinea". /New England
    Journal of Medicine/. *371* (15): 1418–25. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1056/NEJMoa1404505
    <https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJMoa1404505>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 24738640
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24738640>. 
162. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-1st_Chain_162-0>* "The first cases of this
    Ebola outbreak traced by WHO"
    <http://who.int/csr/disease/ebola/ebola-6-months/guinea-chart-big.png?ua=1>
    (png). /World Health Organization/. WHO
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WHO>. 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141006092047/http://who.int/csr/disease/ebola/ebola-6-months/guinea-chart-big.png?ua=1>
    from the original on 6 October 2014. 
163. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-163>* "WHO raises global alarm over Ebola
    outbreak"
    <http://www.cbsnews.com/news/ebola-outbreak-international-public-health-emergency-who/>.
    /CBS/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140808095616/http://www.cbsnews.com/news/ebola-outbreak-international-public-health-emergency-who/>
    from the original on 8 August 2014. Retrieved 2 August 2014. 
164. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Common_Dreams_164-0>* Deirdre Fulton (18
    August 2014). "In Liberia's Ebola-Stricken Villages, Residents Face
    'Stark' Choices"
    <http://www.commondreams.org/news/2014/08/18/liberias-ebola-stricken-villages-residents-face-stark-choices>.
    Common Dreams. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140820041111/http://www.commondreams.org/news/2014/08/18/liberias-ebola-stricken-villages-residents-face-stark-choices>
    from the original on 20 August 2014. Retrieved 20 August 2014. 
165. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Ebola_situation_assessment_165-0>* Media
    centre (26 September 2014). "Experimental therapies: growing
    interest in the use of whole blood or plasma from recovered Ebola
    patients (convalescent therapies)"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/ebola/26-september-2014/en/>.
    World Health Organization. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140928143036/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/ebola/26-september-2014/en/>
    from the original on 28 September 2014. Retrieved 28 September 2014. 
166. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-:0_166-0>* "2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa
    – Case Counts"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/index.html>.
    /2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa/. CDC (Centers for Disease
    Control and Prevention). 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170806135144/https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/index.html>
    from the original on 6 August 2017. 
167. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Ebola_Outbreak_total_WHO_28_Sept_167-0>*
    "Ebola Response Roadmap Situation Report"
    <http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/135600/1/roadmapsitrep_1Oct2014_eng.pdf?ua=1>
    (PDF). World Health Organization. 1 October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141002142707/http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/135600/1/roadmapsitrep_1Oct2014_eng.pdf?ua=1>
    (PDF) from the original on 2 October 2014. 
168. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-168>* "Unprecedented number of medical staff
    infected with Ebola"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/ebola/25-august-2014/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. 25 August 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140828123825/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/ebola/25-august-2014/en/>
    from the original on 28 August 2014. Retrieved 29 August 2014. 
169. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-WHO2014_12_10_169-0>* "Ebola response roadmap
    - Situation report"
    <http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/145198/1/roadmapsitrep_10Dec2014_eng.pdf?ua=1>
    (PDF). World Health Organization. 10 December 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141210214551/http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/145198/1/roadmapsitrep_10Dec2014_eng.pdf?ua=1>
    (PDF) from the original on 10 December 2014. Retrieved 11 December
    2014. 
170. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-World_Health_Organization_170-0>* "Ebola
    Situation Report"
    <http://apps.who.int/ebola/en/ebola-situation-report/situation-reports/ebola-situation-report-28-january-2015>.
    World Health Organization. 28 January 2015. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150203214717/http://apps.who.int/ebola/en/ebola-situation-report/situation-reports/ebola-situation-report-28-january-2015>
    from the original on 3 February 2015. Retrieved 5 February 2015. 
171. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-WHO_171-0>* "Ebola Situation Report"
    <http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/161244/1/roadmapsitrep_8Apr2015_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1>
    (PDF). World Health Organization. 8 April 2015. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150414170339/http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/161244/1/roadmapsitrep_8Apr2015_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1>
    (PDF) from the original on 14 April 2015. Retrieved 14 April 2015. 
172. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-172>* Thomson Reuters (29 December 2015).
    "Ebola gone from Guinea"
    <http://www.cbc.ca/news/health/ebola-guinea-1.3382945>. /CBC News –
    Health/. CBC/Radio Canada. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20151230001240/http://www.cbc.ca/news/health/ebola-guinea-1.3382945>
    from the original on 30 December 2015. Retrieved 30 December 2015. 
173. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-173>* "UN declares end to Ebola virus
    transmission in Guinea; first time all three host countries free"
    <https://www.un.org/apps/news/story.asp?NewsID=52913#.VoPY3PkrIgs>.
    /UN News Center/. United Nations. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160101115517/http://www.un.org/apps/news/story.asp?NewsID=52913#.VoPY3PkrIgs>
    from the original on 1 January 2016. Retrieved 30 December 2015. 
174. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-174>* "New Ebola case in Sierra Leone. WHO
    continues to stress risk of more flare-ups"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2016/new-ebola-case/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. 15 January 2016. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160127143222/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2016/new-ebola-case/en/>
    from the original on 27 January 2016. Retrieved 25 January 2016. 
175. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-175>* Greg Botelho and Jacque Wilson (8
    October 2014). "Thomas Eric Duncan: First Ebola death in U.S"
    <http://edition.cnn.com/2014/10/08/health/thomas-eric-duncan-ebola/index.html>.
    CNN. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160529040652/http://edition.cnn.com/2014/10/08/health/thomas-eric-duncan-ebola/index.html>
    from the original on 29 May 2016. Retrieved 8 August 2017. 
176. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-176>* "Second US Ebola diagnosis 'deeply
    concerning', admits CDC chief"
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141014175544/http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/second-us-ebola-diagnosis-deeply-concerning-admits-cdc-chief/ar-BB8UFz0>.
    Archived from the original
    <http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/second-us-ebola-diagnosis-deeply-concerning-admits-cdc-chief/ar-BB8UFz0>
    on 14 October
    2014. archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20141014175544/http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/second-us-ebola-diagnosis-deeply-concerning-admits-cdc-chief/ar-BB8UFz0%7Carchive-date%3D14
    October 2013
177. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-177>* "Ebola crisis: Tests show Spanish nurse
    Teresa Romero no longer has the virus"
    <http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-10-20/spanish-nurse-infected-with-ebola-no-longer-has-virus/5825720>.
    ABC News. 20 October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141029201132/http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-10-20/spanish-nurse-infected-with-ebola-no-longer-has-virus/5825720>
    from the original on 29 October 2014. 
178. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-NYT-20141012-MF_178-0>* Fernandez, Manny (12
    October 2014). "Texas Health Worker Tests Positive for Ebola"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/us/texas-health-worker-tests-positive-for-ebola.html>.
    New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Times>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141012162113/http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/us/texas-health-worker-tests-positive-for-ebola.html>
    from the original on 12 October 2014. Retrieved 12 October 2014. 
179. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-179>* "Ebola in Texas: Second Health Care
    Worker Tests Positive"
    <http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/ebola-virus-outbreak/ebola-texas-second-health-care-worker-tests-positive-n226161>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141015211852/http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/ebola-virus-outbreak/ebola-texas-second-health-care-worker-tests-positive-n226161>
    from the original on 15 October 2014. 
180. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC-20142411_180-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC-20142411_180-1> "Cases of Ebola Diagnosed in the
    United States"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/united-states-imported-case.html>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170226055827/https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/2014-west-africa/united-states-imported-case.html>
    from the original on 26 February 2017. 
181. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-181>* "How Many Ebola Patients Have Been
    Treated Outside of Africa?"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/07/31/world/africa/ebola-virus-outbreak-qa.html>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170202190355/https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/07/31/world/africa/ebola-virus-outbreak-qa.html>
    from the original on 2 February 2017. 
182. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-182>* Sanchez, Ray; Prokupecz, Shimon (23
    October 2014). "N.Y. doctor positive for Ebola had no symptoms until
    Thursday, officials say"
    <http://www.cnn.com/2014/10/23/health/new-york-possible-ebola-case/index.html?hpt=hp_t1>.
    CNN. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141024022702/http://www.cnn.com/2014/10/23/health/new-york-possible-ebola-case/index.html?hpt=hp_t1>
    from the original on 24 October 2014. Retrieved 23 October 2014. 
183. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-183>* "CDC reports potential Ebola exposure in
    Atlanta lab"
    <https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/cdc-reports-potential-ebola-exposure-in-atlanta-lab/2014/12/24/f1a9f26c-8b8e-11e4-8ff4-fb93129c9c8b_story.html>.
    /washingtonpost.com/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141225002131/http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/cdc-reports-potential-ebola-exposure-in-atlanta-lab/2014/12/24/f1a9f26c-8b8e-11e4-8ff4-fb93129c9c8b_story.html>
    from the original on 25 December 2014. Retrieved 25 December 2014. 
184. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-BBC-30628349_184-0>* "Ebola case confirmed in
    Glasgow hospital" <http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-30628349>.
    BBC News. 29 December 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141229191607/http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-30628349>
    from the original on 29 December 2014. 
185. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-BBC-30629397_185-0>* "Ebola nurse Pauline
    Cafferkey transferred to London unit"
    <http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-30629397>. BBC News. 30
    December 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141230120858/http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-30629397>
    from the original on 30 December 2014. 
186. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-MacNeil2012_186-0>* MacNeil A, Rollin PE (June
    2012). "Ebola and Marburg hemorrhagic fevers: neglected tropical
    diseases?" <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3385614>.
    /PLoS Negl Trop Dis/. *6* (6): e1546. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1371/journal.pntd.0001546
    <https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pntd.0001546>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3385614
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3385614> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 22761967
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22761967>. 
187. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid11988060_187-0>* Borio L, Inglesby T,
    Peters CJ, Schmaljohn AL, Hughes JM, Jahrling PB, Ksiazek T, Johnson
    KM, Meyerhoff A, O'Toole T, Ascher MS, Bartlett J, Breman JG, Eitzen
    EM, Hamburg M, Hauer J, Henderson DA, Johnson RT, Kwik G, Layton M,
    Lillibridge S, Nabel GJ, Osterholm MT, Perl TM, Russell P, Tonat K
    (May 2002). "Hemorrhagic fever viruses as biological weapons:
    medical and public health management". /Journal of the American
    Medical Association/. *287* (18): 2391–405. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1001/jama.287.18.2391
    <https://doi.org/10.1001%2Fjama.287.18.2391>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 11988060
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11988060>. 
188. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-188>* Salvaggio MR, Baddley JW (July 2004).
    "Other viral bioweapons: Ebola and Marburg hemorrhagic fever".
    /Dermatologic clinics/. *22* (3): 291–302, vi. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.det.2004.03.003
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.det.2004.03.003>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15207310
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15207310>. 
189. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Zubray_189-0>* Zubray, Geoffrey (2013).
    /Agents of Bioterrorism: Pathogens and Their Weaponization/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=AwkVgNPRnKoC&pg=PA73>. New York,
    NY, USA: Columbia University Press. pp. 73–74. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 9780231518130
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9780231518130>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160504004715/https://books.google.com/books?id=AwkVgNPRnKoC&pg=PA73>
    from the original on 4 May 2016. 
190. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-190>* "Malicious Ebola-Themed Emails Are on
    the Rise"
    <http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/24/malicious-ebola-themed-emails-are-on-the-rise/?action=click&contentCollection=US%20Open&region=Article&module=Promotron>.
    /NYTimes.com/. N.Y.Times. 24 October 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170707125209/https://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/24/malicious-ebola-themed-emails-are-on-the-rise/?action=click&contentCollection=US%20Open&region=Article&module=Promotron>
    from the original on 7 July 2017. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
191. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-191>* "North Korea bans foreigners from
    Pyongyang marathon over Ebola"
    <http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-31581935>. /bbc.com/. BBC News.
    23 February 2015. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20150224061401/http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-31581935>
    from the original on 24 February 2015. Retrieved 23 February 2015. 
192. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-192>* Preston, Richard
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Preston> (1995). /The Hot
    Zone, A Terrifying True Story/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=E6BKpf2tSkoC>. Anchor Books. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0-385-47956-5
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-385-47956-5>.
    OCLC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCLC> 32052009
    <https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/32052009>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160513222825/https://books.google.com/books?id=E6BKpf2tSkoC>
    from the original on 13 May 2016. 
193. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-193>* "Best Sellers: June 4, 1995"
    <https://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9C06E3DA1E39F937A35755C0A963958260>.
    /The New York Times Book Review/. New York: The New York Times. 4
    June 1995. Retrieved 10 September 2014. 
194. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-194>* "About The Hot Zone"
    <http://www.randomhouse.com/features/richardpreston/bookshelf/hz.html>.
    Random House. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141007011934/http://www.randomhouse.com/features/richardpreston/bookshelf/hz.html>
    from the original on 7 October 2014. Retrieved 10 September
    2014. archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20141006105554/
    http://www.randomhouse.com/features/richardpreston/bookshelf/hz.html%7Carchive-date=6
    October 2014
195. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-195>* Close, William T.
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Close> (1995). /Ebola: A
    Documentary Novel of Its First Explosion/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=1IvgAAAAMAAJ>. New York: Ivy
    Books <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivy_Books>. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0804114323
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0804114323>. OCLC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCLC> 32753758
    <https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/32753758>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160508083011/https://books.google.com/books?id=1IvgAAAAMAAJ>
    from the original on 8 May 2016. 
196. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-196>* Grove, Ryan (2 June 2006). "More about
    the people than the virus"
    <https://www.amazon.com/Ebola-documentary-novel-first-explosion/dp/B007HEJSE6>.
    /Review of Close, William T.,/ Ebola: A Documentary Novel of Its
    First Explosion. Amazon.com
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon.com>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141021075254/http://www.amazon.com/Ebola-documentary-novel-first-explosion/dp/B007HEJSE6>
    from the original on 21 October 2014. Retrieved 17 September 2014. 
197. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-197>* Close, William T.
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Close> (2002). /Ebola:
    Through the Eyes of the People/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=BX0gAQAAIAAJ>. Marbleton,
    Wyoming: Meadowlark Springs Productions. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0970337116
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0970337116>. OCLC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCLC> 49193962
    <https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/49193962>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160617210838/https://books.google.com/books?id=BX0gAQAAIAAJ>
    from the original on 17 June 2016. 
198. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-198>* Pink, Brenda (24 June 2008). "A
    fascinating perspective"
    <https://www.amazon.com/Ebola-Through-William-T-Close/product-reviews/0970337116>.
    /Review of Close, William T.,/ Ebola: Through the Eyes of the
    People. Amazon.com <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon.com>.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141021075312/http://www.amazon.com/Ebola-Through-William-T-Close/product-reviews/0970337116>
    from the original on 21 October 2014. Retrieved 17 September 2014. 
199. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-199>* Clancy, Tom
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Clancy> (1996). /Executive
    Orders/ <https://books.google.com/books?id=m1Cny9KFm_wC>. New York:
    Putnam. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0399142185
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0399142185>. OCLC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCLC> 34878804
    <https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/34878804>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160505134456/https://books.google.com/books?id=m1Cny9KFm_wC>
    from the original on 5 May 2016. 
200. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-200>* Stone, Oliver
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oliver_Stone> (2 September 1996).
    "Who's That in the Oval Office?"
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20090410091107/http://www.nytimes.com/books/97/08/17/bsp/20141.html>.
    /Books News & Reviews/. The New York Times Company. Archived from
    the original <https://www.nytimes.com/books/97/08/17/bsp/20141.html>
    on 10 April 2009. Retrieved 10 September 2014. 
201. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-201>* Dewey, Caitlin (2 October 2014).
    "Popular on Amazon: Wildly misleading self-published books about
    Ebola, by random people without medical degrees"
    <https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-intersect/wp/2014/10/02/popular-on-amazon-wildly-misleading-self-published-books-about-ebola-by-random-people-without-medical-degrees/>.
    The Washington Post. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141022174054/http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-intersect/wp/2014/10/02/popular-on-amazon-wildly-misleading-self-published-books-about-ebola-by-random-people-without-medical-degrees/>
    from the original on 22 October 2014. Retrieved 27 October 2014. 
202. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-202>* /Ebola 'kills over 5,000 gorillas'/
    <http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/6220122.stm>. BBC. 8
    December 2006. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20090329013552/http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/6220122.stm>
    from the original on 29 March 2009. Retrieved 31 May 2009. 
203. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-doi10.1126/science.1092528_203-0>
    ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-doi10.1126/science.1092528_203-1> Leroy EM,
    Rouquet P, Formenty P, Souquière S, Kilbourne A, Froment JM, Bermejo
    M, Smit S, Karesh W, Swanepoel R, Zaki SR, Rollin PE (January 2004).
    "Multiple Ebola virus transmission events and rapid decline of
    central African wildlife". /Science/. *303* (5656): 387–90. Bibcode
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bibcode>:2004Sci...303..387L
    <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2004Sci...303..387L>. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1126/science.1092528
    <https://doi.org/10.1126%2Fscience.1092528>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 14726594
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14726594>. 
204. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-204>* Formenty P, Boesch C, Wyers M, Steiner
    C, Donati F, Dind F, Walker F, Le Guenno B (February 1999). "Ebola
    virus outbreak among wild chimpanzees living in a rain forest of
    Côte d'Ivoire". /The Journal of Infectious Diseases/. 179. Suppl 1
    (s1): S120–S126. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1086/514296
    <https://doi.org/10.1086%2F514296>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 9988175
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9988175>. 
205. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Weingartl2012_205-0>* Weingartl HM,
    Embury-Hyatt C, Nfon C, Leung A, Smith G, Kobinger G (November
    2012). "Transmission of Ebola virus from pigs to non-human primates"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3498927>. /Sci Rep/.
    *2*: 811. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1038/srep00811
    <https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fsrep00811>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3498927
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3498927> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 23155478
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23155478>. 
206. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid15757552_206-0>* Allela L, Boury O,
    Pouillot R, Délicat A, Yaba P, Kumulungui B, Rouquet P, Gonzalez JP,
    Leroy EM (March 2005). "Ebola virus antibody prevalence in dogs and
    human risk" <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3298261>.
    /Emerg. Infect. Dis/. *11* (3): 385–90. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1103.040981
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1103.040981>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3298261
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3298261> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15757552
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15757552>. 
207. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Preston_207-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Preston_207-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Preston_207-2> Preston,
    Richard (1994). /The Hot Zone/. New York: Random House. p. 300. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0679437840
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0679437840>. 
208. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-McCormick_1999_277–279_208-0>* McCormick &
    Fisher-Hoch 1999 <#CITEREFMcCormickFisher-Hoch1999>, pp. 277–79
209. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Waterman_1999_209-0>* Waterman, Tara (1999).
    /Ebola Reston Outbreaks/
    <http://www.stanford.edu/group/virus/filo/ebor.html>. Stanford
    University. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20080616192533/http://www.stanford.edu/group/virus/filo/ebor.html>
    from the original on 16 June 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2008. 
210. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-McCormick_1999_298–299_210-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-McCormick_1999_298–299_210-1> McCormick & Fisher-Hoch
    1999 <#CITEREFMcCormickFisher-Hoch1999>, pp. 298–99
211. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-211>* McCormick & Fisher-Hoch 1999
    <#CITEREFMcCormickFisher-Hoch1999>, p. 300
212. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-KnownCasesCDC_212-0>* "Outbreaks Chronology:
    Ebola Virus Disease"
    <http://origin.glb.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/history/chronology.html>.
    /cdc.gov/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141026230925/http://origin.glb.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/history/chronology.html>
    from the original on 26 October 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
213. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-213>* McNeil Jr, Donald G. (24 January 2009).
    "Pig-to-Human Ebola Case Suspected in Philippines"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/24/health/24ebola.html>. New York
    Times. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20090310113731/http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/24/health/24ebola.html>
    from the original on 10 March 2009. Retrieved 26 January 2009. 
214. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-214>* "Final trial results confirm Ebola
    vaccine provides high protection against disease"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2016/ebola-vaccine-results/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170401042946/http://who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2016/ebola-vaccine-results/en/>
    from the original on 1 April 2017. Retrieved 29 March 2017. 
215. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Richardson2010_215-0>* Richardson JS, Dekker
    JD, Croyle MA, Kobinger GP (June 2010). "Recent advances in
    /Ebolavirus/ vaccine development"
    <https://www.landesbioscience.com/journals/vaccines/article/11097/?nocache=1823996907>.
    /Human Vaccines (open access)/. *6* (6): 439–49. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.4161/hv.6.6.11097
    <https://doi.org/10.4161%2Fhv.6.6.11097>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 20671437
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20671437>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141022182523/https://www.landesbioscience.com/journals/vaccines/article/11097/?nocache=1823996907>
    from the original on 22 October 2014. 
216. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-WHOSept2014_216-0>* "Statement on the WHO
    Consultation on potential Ebola therapies and vaccines"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2014/ebola-therapies-consultation/en/>.
    /World Health Organization/. 5 September 2014. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141006083552/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2014/ebola-therapies-consultation/en/>
    from the original on 6 October 2014. Retrieved 1 October 2014. 
217. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-FDAOct2014_217-0>* "2014 Ebola Outbreak in
    West Africa"
    <http://wuww.fda.gov/EmergencyPreparedness/Counterterrorism/MedicalCountermeasures/ucm410308.html>.
    Retrieved 1 October 2014. 
218. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-WhenVaccine2014_218-0>* Alison P. Galvani with
    three others (21 August 2014). "Ebola Vaccination: If Not Now,
    When?" <http://annals.org/article.aspx?articleid=1899514>. /Annals
    of Internal Medicine
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annals_of_Internal_Medicine>/. *161*
    (10): 749–50. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.7326/M14-1904
    <https://doi.org/10.7326%2FM14-1904>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4316820
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4316820> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25141813
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25141813>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141226171225/http://annals.org/article.aspx?articleid=1899514>
    from the original on 26 December 2014. 
219. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-219>* Geisbert, Thomas W (December 2016).
    "First Ebola virus vaccine to protect human beings?". /The Lancet/.
    doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)32618-6
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0140-6736%2816%2932618-6>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 28017402
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28017402>. 
220. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-TL-20161222_220-0>* Henao-Restrepo, Ana Maria;
    et al. (22 December 2016). "Efficacy and effectiveness of an
    rVSV-vectored vaccine in preventing Ebola virus disease: final
    results from the Guinea ring vaccination, open-label,
    cluster-randomised trial (Ebola Ça Suffit!)"
    <http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(16)32621-6/fulltext>.
    /The Lancet <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lancet>/. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)32621-6
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0140-6736%2816%2932621-6>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 28017403
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28017403>. Retrieved 27
    December 2016. CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Explicit_use_of_et_al.>)
221. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-CNN-2016122_221-0>* Berlinger, Joshua (22
    December 2016). "Ebola vaccine gives 100% protection, study finds"
    <http://www.cnn.com/2016/12/22/health/ebola-vaccine-study/index.html>.
    CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNN>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20161227084931/http://www.cnn.com/2016/12/22/health/ebola-vaccine-study/index.html>
    from the original on 27 December 2016. Retrieved 27 December 2016. 
222. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-222>* "Ebola Experts Seek to Expand Testing"
    <http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/ebola-experts-seek-to-expand-testing/>.
    /Scientific American/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141213012943/http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/ebola-experts-seek-to-expand-testing/>
    from the original on 13 December 2014. Retrieved 11 December 2014. 
223. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-223>* "Ebola outbreak: New 15-minute test
    offers hope for thousands"
    <https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/africa/ebola-outbreak-new-15minute-test-trialled-in-guinea-offers-hope-for-thousands-9892543.html>.
    The Independent. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141201003020/http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/africa/ebola-outbreak-new-15minute-test-trialled-in-guinea-offers-hope-for-thousands-9892543.html>
    from the original on 1 December 2014. Retrieved 1 December 2014. 
224. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-224>* Marta Falconi (29 December 2014). "Roche
    Secures Emergency Approval by U.S. Regulators for Ebola Test"
    <https://www.wsj.com/articles/roche-secures-emergency-approval-by-u-s-regulators-for-ebola-test-1419840858>.
    /The Wall Street Journal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wall_Street_Journal>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20141229163045/http://www.wsj.com/articles/roche-secures-emergency-approval-by-u-s-regulators-for-ebola-test-1419840858>
    from the original on 29 December 2014. Retrieved 29 December 2014. 

  * /The article uses public domain text from the CDC as cited./

*Bibliography*

  * Center For Disease Control; Francois Wilson (2014). /CDC Guidance on
    Ebola Virus (EVD): 2014 Edition/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=yMQNBQAAQBAJ&pg=PP1>.
    International Publications Media Group. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-1-63267-011-3
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-63267-011-3>. 
  * /Ebola Virus: New Insights for the Healthcare Professional: 2011
    Edition: ScholarlyPaper/
    <https://books.google.com/books?id=nLA4W5IjJpwC&pg=PP1>. Scholarly
    Editions. 2012. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-1-4649-1493-5
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-4649-1493-5>. 
  * Klenk, Hans-Dieter (January 1999). /Marburg and Ebola Viruses
    (Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology)/. Berlin:
    Springer-Verlag Telos. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-3-540-64729-4
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-3-540-64729-4>. 
  * Klenk, Hans-Dieter; Feldmann, Heinz (2004). /Ebola and Marburg
    viruses: molecular and cellular biology/
    <https://books.google.com/?id=EV_mFgnyPoMC> (Limited preview).
    Wymondham, Norfolk, UK: Horizon Bioscience. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-9545232-3-7
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-9545232-3-7>. 
  * Kuhn, Jens H. (2008). /Filoviruses: A Compendium of 40 Years of
    Epidemiological, Clinical, and Laboratory Studies. Archives of
    Virology Supplement, vol. 20/
    <https://books.google.com/?id=LaOue0F9Ns4C> (Limited preview).
    Vienna: SpringerWienNewYork. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-3-211-20670-6
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-3-211-20670-6>. 
  * McCormick, Joseph; Fisher-Hoch, Susan (June 1999) [1996]. /Level 4:
    Virus Hunters of the CDC/
    <https://books.google.com/?id=QEvR3aJX2m0C> (Limited preview).
    Horvitz, Leslie Alan (Updated [3rd] ed.). Barnes & Noble. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-7607-1208-5
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-7607-1208-5>. 
  * Pattyn, S. R. (1978). /Ebola Virus Haemorrhagic Fever/
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20101211083855/http://www.itg.be/ebola/> (1st
    ed.). Amsterdam: Elsevier/North-Holland Biomedical Press. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 0-444-80060-3
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-444-80060-3>.
    Archived from the original <http://www.itg.be/ebola/> (Full free
    text) on 11 December 2010. 
  * Ryabchikova, Elena I.; Price, Barbara B. (2004). /Ebola and Marburg
    Viruses: A View of Infection Using Electron Microscopy/. Columbus,
    Ohio: Battelle Press. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-1-57477-131-2
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-57477-131-2>. 


    External links

Classification 	
V <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Medical_resources> · T
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Medical_resources> · D
<https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q51993>

  * *ICD
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Statistical_Classification_of_Diseases_and_Related_Health_Problems>-10
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ICD-10>*: A98.4
    <http://apps.who.int/classifications/icd10/browse/2016/en#/A98.4>
  * *ICD
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Statistical_Classification_of_Diseases_and_Related_Health_Problems>-9-CM
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ICD-9_codes>*: 078.89
    <http://www.icd9data.com/getICD9Code.ashx?icd9=078.89>
  * *MeSH <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_Subject_Headings>*:
    D019142
    <https://www.nlm.nih.gov/cgi/mesh/2015/MB_cgi?field=uid&term=D019142>
  * *DiseasesDB <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diseases_Database>*:
    18043 <http://www.diseasesdatabase.com/ddb18043.htm>

External resources 	

  * *MedlinePlus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MedlinePlus>*: 001339
    <https://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/001339.htm>
  * *eMedicine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EMedicine>*: med/626
    <http://www.emedicine.com/med/topic626.htm>


  * Ebola virus disease
    <https://curlie.org/Health/Conditions_and_Diseases/Infectious_Diseases/Viral/Hemorrhagic_Fevers/Ebola/>
    at Curlie (based on DMOZ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DMOZ>)
  * CDC: Ebola hemorrhagic fever <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/> –
    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Special Pathogens Branch
  * WHO: Ebola haemorrhagic fever
    <http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/en/> – World Health
    Organization, Global Alert and Response
  * [1] <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs103/en/> – World
    Health Organization, Fact Sheet 103 Ebola Virus Disease, Updated
    September 2013
  * [2] <http://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/videos/en/>  WHO Ebola videos
  * [3]
    <http://www.scientificamerican.com/report/ebola-what-you-need-to-know1/>
    /Scientific American/ articles related to Ebola – note these are
    general reading articles, they are not scientific peer-reviewed
    research articles.

Find out more on Wikipedia's
*Sister projects
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Wikimedia_sister_projects>* 	

  * Media <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:Search/Ebola>
    from Commons
  * News stories
    <https://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Special:Search/Category:Ebola_virus>
    from Wikinews
  * Definitions
    <https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Special:Search/Ebola#English>
    from Wiktionary
  * Quotations
    <https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Special:Search/Ebola_virus_disease>
    from Wikiquote
  * Learning resources
    <https://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Special:Search/Ebola>
    from Wikiversity
  * Data <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:Search/Q51993>
    from Wikidata

[show <#>]

  * v <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Filoviridae>
  * t <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Filoviridae>
  * e
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Filoviridae&action=edit>

Family /Filoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filoviridae>/
/Cuevavirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuevavirus>/ 	
Species 	

  * /Lloviu cuevavirus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lloviu_cuevavirus>/ (LLOV
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lloviu_virus>)

/Ebolavirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolavirus>/ 	
Species 	

  * /Bundibugyo ebolavirus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundibugyo_ebolavirus>/ (BDBV
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundibugyo_virus>)
  * /Reston ebolavirus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reston_ebolavirus>/ (RESTV
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reston_virus>)
  * /Sudan ebolavirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudan_ebolavirus>/
    (SUDV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudan_virus>)
  * /Taï Forest ebolavirus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta%C3%AF_Forest_ebolavirus>/ (TAFV
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta%C3%AF_Forest_virus>)
  * /Zaire ebolavirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zaire_ebolavirus>/
    (EBOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus>)

Outbreaks <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ebola_outbreaks> 	

  * 1976 Sudan outbreak
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease#Sudan_outbreak>
  * 1976 Zaire outbreak
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yambuku#Ebola_outbreak>
  * 2013−2016 West African Ebola virus epidemic
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_African_Ebola_virus_epidemic>
      o Timeline
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_African_Ebola_virus_epidemic_timeline>
      o Reported cases and deaths
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_African_Ebola_virus_epidemic_timeline_of_reported_cases_and_deaths>
      o Responses
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Responses_to_the_West_African_Ebola_virus_epidemic>
      o United Nations Ebola Response Fund
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Ebola_Response_Fund>
      o Operation United Assistance
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_United_Assistance>
      o in Guinea
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_epidemic_in_Guinea>
      o in Liberia
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_epidemic_in_Liberia>
      o in Mali <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_in_Mali>
      o in Nigeria
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_in_Nigeria>
      o in Sierra Leone
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_epidemic_in_Sierra_Leone>
      o in Spain
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_in_Spain>
      o in the US
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_cases_in_the_United_States>
      o in the UK
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_in_the_United_Kingdom>
      o Ouse to Ouse Tock <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ouse_to_Ouse_Tock>
      o Womey massacre <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Womey_massacre>
  * 2014 DR Congo outbreak
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2014_Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo_Ebola_virus_outbreak>
  * 2017 DR Congo outbreak
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo_Ebola_virus_outbreak>

Drug candidates 	

  * BCX4430 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BCX4430>
  * Brincidofovir <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brincidofovir>
  * DZNep <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3-Deazaneplanocin_A>
  * Favipiravir <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Favipiravir>
  * FGI-103 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FGI-103>
  * FGI-104 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FGI-104>
  * FGI-106 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FGI-106>
  * JK-05 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JK-05>
  * Lamivudine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lamivudine>
  * TKM-Ebola <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TKM-Ebola> (failed)
  * Triazavirin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triazavirin>
  * ZMapp <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZMapp>
  * Vaccines <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_vaccine>
      o cAd3-ZEBOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAd3-ZEBOV>
      o rVSV-ZEBOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RVSV-ZEBOV_vaccine>

Notable people 	

  * William Close <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Close>
  * Peter Piot <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Piot>
  * Selected patients
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ebola_patients>
      o Ameyo Adadevoh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ameyo_Adadevoh>
      o Kent Brantly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kent_Brantly>
      o Pauline Cafferkey <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pauline_Cafferkey>
      o Thomas Eric Duncan
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Eric_Duncan>
      o Salome Karwah <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salome_Karwah>
      o Sheik Umar Khan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sheik_Umar_Khan>
      o Matthew Lukwiya <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_Lukwiya>
      o Mayinga N'Seka <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayinga_N%27Seka>
      o Patrick Sawyer <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Sawyer>

Popular culture
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_effects_of_the_Ebola_crisis> 	

  * /The Hot Zone <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hot_Zone>/ (1995
    book by Richard Preston <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Preston>)
  * /Outbreak <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outbreak_(film)>/ (1995 film)
  * /Ebola Syndrome <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_Syndrome>/
    (1996 film)
  * /Executive Orders <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_Orders>/
    (1996 novel)
  * /93 Days <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/93_Days>/ (2016 film)

Miscellaneous 	

  * Ebola virus disease
      o Treatment research
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease_treatment_research>
  * Ebola River <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_River>

/Marburgvirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburgvirus>/ 	
Species 	

  * /Marburg marburgvirus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_marburgvirus>/
      o MARV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus>
      o RAVV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ravn_virus>

Outbreaks 	

  * 2017 Uganda Marburg virus outbreak
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_Uganda_Marburg_virus_outbreak>

Drug candidates 	

  * BCX4430 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BCX4430>
  * FGI-103 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FGI-103>
  * FGI-106 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FGI-106>

Popular culture 	

  * /The Hot Zone <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hot_Zone>/ (1995 book)

Miscellaneous 	

  * Marburg virus disease
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus_disease>
  * Marburg <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg>

  * Commons page Commons
    <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:Search/Filoviridae>
  * Wikispecies page Wikispecies
    <https://species.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:Search/Filoviridae>

[show <#>]

  * v <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Zoonotic_viral_diseases>
  * t <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Zoonotic_viral_diseases>
  * e
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Zoonotic_viral_diseases&action=edit>

Zoonotic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoonosis> viral diseases
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_disease> (A80–B34
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A80%E2%80%93B34>, 042–079
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/042%E2%80%93079>)
Arthropod-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthropod> 	
Mosquito-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito-borne_disease> 	
/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: La Crosse
    encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Crosse_encephalitis>
      o LACV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Crosse_virus>
  * Batai virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Batai_virus> (BATV)
  * Bwamba Fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bwamba_Fever> (BWAV)
  * California encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California_encephalitis>
      o CEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California_encephalitis_virus>
  * Jamestown Canyon virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jamestown_Canyon_virus>
  * Tete virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tete_virus>
  * Tahyna virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tahyna_virus> (TAHV)

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Rift Valley
    fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rift_Valley_fever>
      o RVFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rift_Valley_Fever_virus>
  * Bunyamwera fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyamwera_virus> (BUNV)
  * Ngari virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ngari_virus&action=edit&redlink=1>
    (NRIV)

/Flaviviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flaviviridae>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: Japanese
    encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_encephalitis>
      o JEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_encephalitis_virus>
  * Australian encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murray_Valley_encephalitis_virus>
      o MVEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murray_Valley_encephalitis_virus>
      o KUNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kunjin_virus>
  * Saint Louis encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Louis_encephalitis>
      o SLEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Louis_encephalitis_virus>
  * Usutu virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usutu_virus>
  * West Nile fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_fever>
      o WNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus>

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Dengue
    fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dengue_fever>
      o DENV-1-4 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dengue_virus>
  * Yellow fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_fever>
      o YFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_fever_virus>
  * Zika fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zika_fever>
      o Zika virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zika_virus>

/Togaviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Togaviridae>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: Eastern
    equine encephalomyelitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_equine_encephalomyelitis>
      o EEEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_equine_encephalitis_virus>
  * Western equine encephalomyelitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_equine_encephalomyelitis>
      o WEEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_equine_encephalitis_virus>
  * Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuelan_equine_encephalomyelitis>
      o VEEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuelan_equine_encephalitis_virus>
  * Chikungunya <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chikungunya>
      o CHIKV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chikungunya_virus>
  * O'Nyong-nyong fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O%27Nyong-nyong_fever>
      o ONNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O%27nyong%27nyong_virus>
  * Ross River fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ross_River_fever>
      o RRV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ross_River_virus>
  * Semliki Forest virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semliki_Forest_virus>
  * Sindbis fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sindbis_virus>

/Reoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reoviridae>/ 	

  * Banna virus encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banna_virus>

Tick-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick-borne_disease#Viruses> 	
/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>:
    Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crimean%E2%80%93Congo_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o CCHFV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crimean%E2%80%93Congo_hemorrhagic_fever_virus>
  * Heartland virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heartland_virus>
  * Bhanja virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhanja_virus>
  * Sandfly fever Naples virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandfly_fever_Naples_virus>
  * Lone Star virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lone_Star_virus>
  * Tete virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tete_virus>

/Flaviviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flaviviridae>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: Tick-borne
    encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick-borne_encephalitis>
      o TBEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick-borne_encephalitis_virus>
  * Powassan encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Powassan_encephalitis>
      o POWV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Powassan_virus>

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Omsk
    hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omsk_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o OHFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omsk_hemorrhagic_fever_virus>
  * Kyasanur forest disease
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyasanur_forest_disease>
      o KFDV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyasanur_forest_disease_virus>
      o AHFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alkhurma_virus>
  * Langat virus (LGTV) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Langat_virus>

/Reoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reoviridae>/ 	

  * Colorado tick fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colorado_tick_fever>
      o CTFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colorado_tick_fever_virus>
  * Kemerovo tickborne viral fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kemerovo_tickborne_viral_fever>

Sandfly-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandfly#Viruses> 	
/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Adria virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adria_virus> (ADRV)
  * Pappataci fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pappataci_fever>
      o Toscana virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toscana_virus>
  * Sandfly fever Naples virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandfly_fever_Naples_virus>
  * Oropouche fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oropouche_fever>
      o Oropouche virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oropouche_virus>
  * SFTS virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SFTS_virus>

/Rhabdoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdoviridae>/ 	

  * Chandipura virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chandipura_virus>

Mammal-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mammal> 	
Rodent-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rodent> 	
/Arenaviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arenavirus>/ 	

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Lassa fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lassa_fever>
      o LASV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lassa_virus>
  * Venezuelan hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuelan_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o GTOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guanarito_virus>
  * Argentine hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argentine_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o JUNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Junin_virus>
  * Brazilian hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brazilian_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o SABV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brazilian_hemorrhagic_fever>
  * Bolivian hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolivian_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o MACV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machupo_virus>
  * LUJV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lujo_virus>
  * CHPV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chapare_virus>

/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hantavirus_hemorrhagic_fever_with_renal_syndrome>

      o DOBV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dobrava-Belgrade_virus>
      o HTNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hantaan_River_virus>
      o PUUV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puumala_virus>
      o SEOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_virus>
      o AMRV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amur_virus>

  * Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hantavirus>
      o ANDV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andes_virus>
      o SNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sin_Nombre_virus>

Bat-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bat#Disease_transmission> 	
/Filoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filoviridae>/ 	

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Ebola virus
    disease
  * BDBV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundibugyo_virus>
  * EBOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus>
  * SUDV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudan_virus>
  * TAFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta%C3%AF_Forest_virus>
  * Marburg virus disease
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus_disease>
  * MARV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus>
  * RAVV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ravn_virus>

/Rhabdoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdoviridae>/ 	

  * Rabies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabies>
      o ABLV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_bat_lyssavirus>
      o MOKV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mokola_virus>
      o DUVV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duvenhage_virus>
      o LBV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagos_bat_virus>
  * CHPV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chandipura_virus>

/Paramyxoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paramyxoviridae>/ 	

  * Henipavirus encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henipavirus>
      o HeV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hendra_virus>
      o NiV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nipah_virus>

/Primate-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primate>/ 	
/Herpesviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herpesviridae>/ 	

  * Herpes B virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herpes_B_virus>

/Retroviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retroviridae>/ 	

  * Simian foamy virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simian_foamy_virus>
  * HTLV-1 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_T-lymphotropic_virus_1>
  * HTLV-2 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_T-lymphotropic_virus_2>

/Poxviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poxviridae>/ 	

  * Tanapox <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanapox>
  * Yaba monkey tumor virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yaba_monkey_tumor_virus>

Multiple vectors 	
/Rhabdoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdoviridae>/ 	

  * Rabies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabies>
      o RABV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabies_virus>
  * Mokola virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mokola_virus>

/Poxviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poxviridae>/ 	

  * Monkeypox <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkeypox>

Authority control <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Authority_control> 	

  * LCCN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Control_Number>:
    sh85040654 <http://id.loc.gov/authorities/subjects/sh85040654>
  * GND <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_Authority_File>:
    4370218-1 <https://d-nb.info/gnd/4370218-1>
  * BNF
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biblioth%C3%A8que_nationale_de_France>:
    cb124633823 <http://catalogue.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/cb124633823> (data)
    <http://data.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/cb124633823>

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&oldid=814232666"

Categories <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Category>:

  * Ebola <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Ebola>
  * Animal viral diseases
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Animal_viral_diseases>
  * Arthropod-borne viral fevers and viral haemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Arthropod-borne_viral_fevers_and_viral_haemorrhagic_fevers>
  * Bat-borne viruses
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Bat-borne_viruses>
  * Biological weapons
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Biological_weapons>
  * Health in Africa
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Health_in_Africa>
  * Hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Hemorrhagic_fevers>
  * Sexually transmitted diseases and infections
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Sexually_transmitted_diseases_and_infections>
  * Tropical diseases
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Tropical_diseases>
  * Virus-related cutaneous conditions
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Virus-related_cutaneous_conditions>
  * West African Ebola virus epidemic
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:West_African_Ebola_virus_epidemic>
  * Wikipedia pages referenced by the press
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_pages_referenced_by_the_press>
  * Zoonoses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Zoonoses>

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Extra_text:_authors_list>
  * CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Uses_authors_parameter>
  * CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al.
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Explicit_use_of_et_al.>
  * CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Uses_editors_parameter>
  * CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_BOT:_original-url_status_unknown>
  * Webarchive template wayback links
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Webarchive_template_wayback_links>
  * CS1 French-language sources (fr)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_French-language_sources_(fr)>
  * Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_pages_semi-protected_against_vandalism>
  * Use dmy dates from January 2016
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Use_dmy_dates_from_January_2016>
  * Infobox medical condition (new)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Infobox_medical_condition_(new)>
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2013
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_containing_potentially_dated_statements_from_2013>
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:All_articles_containing_potentially_dated_statements>
  * All articles with unsourced statements
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:All_articles_with_unsourced_statements>
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2016
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_with_unsourced_statements_from_August_2016>
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from September 2014
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_containing_potentially_dated_statements_from_September_2014>
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from May 2016
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_containing_potentially_dated_statements_from_May_2016>
  * Articles with DMOZ links
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_with_DMOZ_links>
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_articles_with_LCCN_identifiers>
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_articles_with_GND_identifiers>
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_articles_with_BNF_identifiers>
  * Articles containing video clips
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_containing_video_clips>
  * RTT <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:RTT>
  * RTTID <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:RTTID>


    Navigation menu


Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk>
  * Contributions <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions>
  * Create account
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Ebola+virus+disease>
  * Log in
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Ebola+virus+disease>


Namespaces

  * Article

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * Talk

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Ebola_virus_disease>


      Variants


Views

  * Read

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * View source

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&action=edit>
  * View history

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&action=history>


      More


      Search

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>


Navigation

  * Main page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>
  * Contents <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Contents>
  * Featured content <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Featured_content>
  * Current events <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current_events>
  * Random article <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Random>
  * Donate to Wikipedia
    <https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en>
  * Wikipedia store <https://shop.wikimedia.org/>


      Interaction

  * Help <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Contents>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Community portal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal>
  * Recent changes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges>
  * Contact page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>


      Tools

  * What links here
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * Related changes
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * Upload file <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard>
  * Special pages <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:SpecialPages>
  * Permanent link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&oldid=814232666>
  * Page information
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&action=info>
  * Wikidata item <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q51993>
  * Cite this page
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Ebola_virus_disease&id=814232666>


      Print/export

  * Create a book
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Book&bookcmd=book_creator&referer=Ebola+virus+disease>
  * Download as PDF
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:ElectronPdf&page=Ebola+virus+disease&action=show-download-screen>
  * Printable version
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&printable=yes>


      In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
    <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Ebolavirus>
  * Wikinews <https://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Category:Ebola_virus>
  * Wikiquote <https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>


      Languages

  * Afrikaans <https://af.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Akan <https://ak.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_yare>
  * Alemannisch <https://als.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolafieber>
  * አማርኛ <https://am.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%8A%A2%E1%89%A6%E1%88%8B>
  * العربية
    <https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%85%D8%B1%D8%B6_%D9%81%D9%8A%D8%B1%D9%88%D8%B3_%D8%A5%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A7>
  * অসমীয়া
    <https://as.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A6%87%E0%A6%AC%27%E0%A6%B2%E0%A6%BE_%E0%A6%AD%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%87%E0%A7%B0%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%9B_%E0%A7%B0%E0%A7%8B%E0%A6%97>
  * Avañe'ẽ <https://gn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89bola_v%C3%ADru_mba%27asy>
  * Bamanankan <https://bm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virisi_bana>
  * বাংলা
    <https://bn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A6%87%E0%A6%AC%E0%A7%8B%E0%A6%B2%E0%A6%BE_%E0%A6%AD%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%87%E0%A6%B0%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%9C%E0%A6%A8%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A4_%E0%A6%B0%E0%A7%8B%E0%A6%97>
  * Bân-lâm-gú
    <https://zh-min-nan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_p%C4%93%E2%81%BF-to%CC%8Dk-p%C4%93%E2%81%BF>
  * Беларуская
    <https://be.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%93%D0%B5%D0%BC%D0%B0%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B3%D1%96%D1%87%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%8F_%D0%BB%D1%96%D1%85%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%BA%D0%B0_%D0%AD%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * Български <https://bg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%95%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * Bosanski <https://bs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_(bolest)>
  * Brezhoneg <https://br.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kle%C3%B1ved_viruz_Ebola>
  * Буряад
    <https://bxr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%AD%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0_%D0%B2%D0%B8%D1%80%D1%83%D1%81%D0%B0%D0%B9_%D2%AF%D0%B1%D1%88%D1%8D%D0%BD>
  * Català
    <https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Febre_hemorr%C3%A0gica_de_l%27Ebola>
  * Čeština <https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Chi-Chewa <https://ny.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matenda_a_Ebola>
  * ChiShona <https://sn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chirwere_cheEbola>
  * Dansk <https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Deutsch <https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolafieber>
  * Eesti <https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_viirushaigus>
  * Ελληνικά
    <https://el.wikipedia.org/wiki/%CE%91%CF%83%CE%B8%CE%AD%CE%BD%CE%B5%CE%B9%CE%B1_%CE%B9%CE%BF%CF%8D_%CE%88%CE%BC%CF%80%CE%BF%CE%BB%CE%B1>
  * Español
    <https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enfermedad_por_el_virus_del_%C3%89bola>
  * Esperanto <https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_malsano>
  * Euskara <https://eu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_gaixotasun_biriko>
  * Eʋegbe <https://ee.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_d%C9%94lele>
  * فارسی
    <https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A8%DB%8C%D9%85%D8%A7%D8%B1%DB%8C_%D9%88%DB%8C%D8%B1%D9%88%D8%B3%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A7>
  * Føroyskt <https://fo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Français <https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maladie_%C3%A0_virus_Ebola>
  * Fulfulde <https://ff.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Galego <https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89bola>
  * Gĩkũyũ <https://ki.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * 한국어
    <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EC%97%90%EB%B3%BC%EB%9D%BC_%EC%B6%9C%ED%98%88%EC%97%B4>
  * Hausa <https://ha.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C6%98wayoyin_cuta_na_Ebola>
  * हिन्दी
    <https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%87%E0%A4%AC%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%B2%E0%A4%BE_%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%B8_%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%97>
  * Hrvatski <https://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Igbo <https://ig.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nje_%E1%BB%8Dr%E1%BB%8Ba_Ebola>
  * Bahasa Indonesia <https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penyakit_virus_Ebola>
  * IsiXhosa <https://xh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isifo_sentsholongwane_i-Ebola>
  * IsiZulu <https://zu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isifo_segciwane_le-Ebola>
  * Italiano <https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malattia_da_virus_Ebola>
  * עברית <https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%90%D7%91%D7%95%D7%9C%D7%94>
  * Basa Jawa <https://jv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panyakit_ebola>
  * Қазақша
    <https://kk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%AD%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0_%D0%B0%D1%83%D1%80%D1%83%D1%8B>
  * Kinyarwanda <https://rw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indwara_ya_Ebola>
  * Kirundi
    <https://rn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ingwara_iterwa_n%E2%80%99umugera_wa_Ebola>
  * Kiswahili <https://sw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Kreyòl ayisyen <https://ht.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maladi_viris_Ebola>
  * ລາວ
    <https://lo.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%BA%AD%E0%BA%B5%E0%BB%82%E0%BA%9A%E0%BA%A5%E0%BA%B2>
  * Latina <https://la.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_febris_haemorrhagica>
  * Latviešu <https://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolas_v%C4%ABrusslim%C4%ABba>
  * Lietuvių
    <https://lt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolos_hemoragin%C4%97_kar%C5%A1tin%C4%97>
  * Limburgs <https://li.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Lingála <https://ln.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bokono_ya_Ebola>
  * Luganda <https://lg.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ekirwadde_ky%E2%80%99ebola>
  * Magyar <https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_(betegs%C3%A9g)>
  * मैथिली
    <https://mai.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%87%E0%A4%AC%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%B2%E0%A4%BE>
  * Македонски
    <https://mk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%95%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * മലയാളം
    <https://ml.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B4%8E%E0%B4%AC%E0%B5%8B%E0%B4%B3>
  * मराठी
    <https://mr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%87%E0%A4%AC%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%B2%E0%A4%BE_%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%B7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A3%E0%A5%82_%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%97>
  * Bahasa Melayu <https://ms.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penyakit_virus_Ebola>
  * Монгол <https://mn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%AD%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
    <https://my.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%80%A1%E1%80%AE%E1%80%97%E1%80%AD%E1%80%AF%E1%80%9C%E1%80%AC_%E1%80%97%E1%80%AD%E1%80%AF%E1%80%84%E1%80%BA%E1%80%B8%E1%80%9B%E1%80%95%E1%80%BA%E1%80%85%E1%80%BA>
  * Nederlands <https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Nedersaksies <https://nds-nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * नेपाली
    <https://ne.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%87%E0%A4%AC%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%B2%E0%A4%BE>
  * 日本語
    <https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E3%82%A8%E3%83%9C%E3%83%A9%E5%87%BA%E8%A1%80%E7%86%B1>
  * Norsk nynorsk <https://nn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola-virussjukdom>
  * Occitan <https://oc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus_Ebola>
  * ଓଡ଼ିଆ
    <https://or.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AC%87%E0%AC%AC%E0%AD%8B%E0%AC%B2%E0%AC%BE_%E0%AC%AD%E0%AD%82%E0%AC%A4%E0%AC%BE%E0%AC%A3%E0%AD%81_%E0%AC%B0%E0%AD%8B%E0%AC%97>
  * Oromoo <https://om.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dhibbee_vaayiirasii_Iboollaa>
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
    <https://uz.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_gemorragik_isitmasi>
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
    <https://pa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A8%87%E0%A8%AC%E0%A9%8B%E0%A8%B2%E0%A8%BE_%E0%A8%B5%E0%A8%BF%E0%A8%B8%E0%A8%BC%E0%A8%BE%E0%A8%A3%E0%A9%82_%E0%A8%B0%E0%A9%8B%E0%A8%97>
  * Papiamentu <https://pap.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * پښتو
    <https://ps.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A7%DB%8C%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A7_%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%88%D8%BA%DB%8D>
  * ភាសាខ្មែរ
    <https://km.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%9E%87%E1%9F%86%E1%9E%84%E1%9E%BA%E1%9E%A2%E1%9F%8A%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%94%E1%9E%BC%E1%9E%A1%E1%9E%B6>
  * Polski <https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gor%C4%85czka_krwotoczna_Ebola>
  * Português
    <https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doen%C3%A7a_por_v%C3%ADrus_%C3%89bola>
  * Qaraqalpaqsha <https://kaa.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_gemorragik_isitpasi>
  * Română <https://ro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boala_viral%C4%83_Ebola>
  * Romani <https://rmy.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Runa Simi <https://qu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evola_virusmanta_unquyqa>
  * Русский
    <https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%93%D0%B5%D0%BC%D0%BE%D1%80%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B3%D0%B8%D1%87%D0%B5%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B0%D1%8F_%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%85%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B0_%D0%AD%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * Саха тыла
    <https://sah.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%AD%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0_%D0%B2%D0%B8%D1%80%D1%83%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%B0%D1%85_%D1%8B%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%8B%D1%8B%D1%82%D0%B0>
  * Scots <https://sco.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * Sesotho
    <https://st.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boloetse_ba_kokwanahloko_ya_Ebola>
  * Sesotho sa Leboa
    <https://nso.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolwet%C5%A1i_bja_baerase_ya_Ebola>
  * Setswana <https://tn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolwetse_jwa_mogare_wa_Ebola>
  * සිංහල
    <https://si.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B6%89%E0%B6%B6%E0%B7%96%E0%B6%BD%E0%B7%8F_%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%9B%E0%B6%BB%E0%B7%83%E0%B7%8A_%E0%B6%BB%E0%B7%9D%E0%B6%9C%E0%B6%BA>
  * Simple English <https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * SiSwati <https://ss.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligciwane_lesifo_se-Ebola>
  * Slovenčina
    <https://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choroba_vyvolan%C3%A1_v%C3%ADrusom_Ebola>
  * Slovenščina <https://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Soomaaliga <https://so.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * کوردی
    <https://ckb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%86%DB%95%D8%AE%DB%86%D8%B4%DB%8C%DB%8C_%D8%A6%DB%8E%D8%A8%DB%86%D9%84%D8%A7>
  * Српски / srpski
    <https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%95%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски <https://sh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Suomi <https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola>
  * Svenska <https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebolafeber>
  * Tagalog <https://tl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakit_na_Ebola>
  * தமிழ்
    <https://ta.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AE%8E%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8B%E0%AE%B2%E0%AE%BE_%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%80%E0%AE%A8%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%A3%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AE_%E0%AE%A8%E0%AF%8B%E0%AE%AF%E0%AF%8D>
  * Татарча/tatarça
    <https://tt.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%AD%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0_%D0%B1%D0%B8%D0%B7%D0%B3%D3%99%D0%B3%D0%B5>
  * తెలుగు
    <https://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B0%8E%E0%B0%AC%E0%B1%8B%E0%B0%B2%E0%B0%BE_%E0%B0%B5%E0%B1%88%E0%B0%B0%E0%B0%B8%E0%B1%8D_%E0%B0%B5%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%AF%E0%B0%BE%E0%B0%A7%E0%B0%BF>
  * ไทย
    <https://th.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%84%E0%B9%84%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B5%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%A5%E0%B8%B2>
  * ትግርኛ
    <https://ti.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%88%95%E1%88%9B%E1%88%9D_%E1%89%AB%E1%8B%AD%E1%88%A8%E1%88%B5_%E1%8A%A2%E1%89%A6%E1%88%8B>
  * Tshivenda <https://ve.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vhulwadze_ha_Vairasi_ya_Ebola>
  * Türkçe
    <https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_vir%C3%BCs%C3%BC_hastal%C4%B1%C4%9F%C4%B1>
  * Thuɔŋjäŋ <https://din.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebu%C9%94la>
  * Українська
    <https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A5%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%B1%D0%B0,_%D1%8F%D0%BA%D1%83_%D1%81%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B8%D1%87%D0%B8%D0%BD%D1%8E%D1%94_%D0%B2%D1%96%D1%80%D1%83%D1%81_%D0%95%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * اردو
    <https://ur.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A7%DB%8C%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A7_%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%A6%D8%B1%D8%B3_%D8%A8%DB%8C%D9%85%D8%A7%D8%B1%DB%8C>
  * Tiếng Việt <https://vi.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%E1%BB%87nh_do_virus_Ebola>
  * Walon <https://wa.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Ebola>
  * Winaray <https://war.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakit_nga_Ebola>
  * Wolof <https://wo.wikipedia.org/wiki/J%C3%A0ngoroy_Ebola>
  * Xitsonga
    <https://ts.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xitsongwatsongwana_xa_vuvabyi_bya_Ebola>
  * Yorùbá
    <https://yo.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%80r%C3%B9n_k%C3%B2k%C3%B2r%C3%B2_%C3%A0%C3%ACl%C3%A8foj%C3%BAr%C3%AD_af%C3%A0%C3%ACs%C3%A0n_Ebola>
  * 粵語
    <https://zh-yue.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%BC%8A%E6%B3%A2%E6%8B%89%E5%87%BA%E8%A1%80%E7%86%B1>
  * Žemaitėška <https://bat-smg.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebuola>
  * 中文
    <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E5%9F%83%E5%8D%9A%E6%8B%89%E5%87%BA%E8%A1%80%E7%83%AD>
  * Kabɩyɛ <https://kbp.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eeboolaa>

Edit links
<https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q51993#sitelinks-wikipedia>

  * This page was last edited on 7 December 2017, at 16:10.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
    License
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License><https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/>;
    additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the
    Terms of Use <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use> and
    Privacy Policy
    <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>. Wikipedia® is
    a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
    <https://www.wikimediafoundation.org/>, a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Disclaimers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer>
  * Contact Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>
  * Developers
    <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute>
  * Cookie statement <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Cookie_statement>
  * Mobile view
    <https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ebola_virus_disease&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile>
  * Enable previews <#>

  * Wikimedia Foundation <https://wikimediafoundation.org/>	
  * Powered by MediaWiki <https://www.mediawiki.org/>	

