<http://www.who.int/csr/disease/marburg/en/>

Skip to main content

<#content>

<http://www.who.int/en/>


      Access

  * Home Alt+0 <http://www.who.int/en/>
  * Navigation Alt+1 <#navigation>
  * Content Alt+2 <#main>

//


      Search

Search the WHO.int site

Submit

Advanced search
<http://search.who.int/search?ie=utf8&site=who&lr=lang_en&client=_en_r&proxystylesheet=_en_r&output=xml_no_dtd&oe=UTF-8&access=p&entqr=3&ud=1&proxycustom=%3CADVANCED/%3E>


//


      Navigation

  * Home

    <http://www.who.int/en/>
  * Health topics

    <http://www.who.int/topics/en/>
  * Data

    <http://www.who.int/entity/gho/en/>
  * Media centre

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/en/>
  * Publications

    <http://www.who.int/publications/en/>
  * Countries

    <http://www.who.int/countries/en/>
  * Programmes

    <http://www.who.int/entity/en/>
  * Governance

    <http://www.who.int/governance/en/>
  * About WHO

    <http://www.who.int/about/en/>


      Language

عربي

<http://www.who.int/csr/disease/marburg/ar/index.html>
中文

<http://www.who.int/csr/disease/marburg/zh/index.html>
English

<http://www.who.int/csr/disease/marburg/en/index.html>
Français

<http://www.who.int/csr/disease/marburg/fr/index.html>
Русский

<http://www.who.int/csr/disease/marburg/ru/index.html>
Español

<http://www.who.int/csr/disease/marburg/es/index.html>

RSSFollow on RSS

<http://www.who.int/about/licensing/rss/en/index.html>YouTubeFollow on
YouTube

<http://www.youtube.com/user/who?sub_confirmation=1>TwitterFollow on Twitter

<http://twitter.com/intent/follow?source=followbutton&variant=1.0&screen_name=who>FacebookFollow
on Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/WHO>Google+Follow on Google Follow

<https://plus.google.com/+who/posts>InstagramFollow on Instagram

<http://instagram.com/who>


    Emergencies preparedness, response


Menu

  * Home

    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/en/>
  * Ebola outbreak in DRC

    <http://www.who.int/entity/emergencies/ebola-DRC-2017/en/>
  * Alert and response operations

    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/alertresponse/en/>
  * Diseases

    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/en/>
  * Biorisk reduction

    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/bioriskreduction/en/>
  * Disease outbreak news

    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/don/en/>


  Marburg virus disease


    Uganda ends outbreak of Marburg virus disease
    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/2017/uganda-marburg-virus-disease/en/index.html>


Treatment unit for Marburg virus disease in Kween, Uganda

<http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/2017/uganda-marburg-virus-disease/en/index.html>

WHO/T. Strecker

8 December 2017 – Uganda has successfully controlled an outbreak of
Marburg virus disease and prevented its spread only weeks after it was
first detected.

Within 24 hours of being informed by Ugandan health authorities in early
October, WHO deployed a rapid response team to the remote mountainous
area. The Organization also released US$ 623 000 from its Contingency
Fund for Emergencies to finance immediate support and scale up of the
response.

  * Read the news release
    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/2017/uganda-marburg-virus-disease/en/index.html>


    Health workers urged to work with communities to stop Marburg virus
    disease

WHO

4 November 2017 - As the Marburg virus disease continues to unfold in
Kween district, eastern Uganda, frontline health workers battling the
outbreak have been urged to nurture local capacity to be able to respond
to the current and future outbreaks.

“Community engagement is the cornerstone of emergency response. Work
with the communities to build their capacity for success and
sustainability,” said Dr Zabulon Yoti, WHO Technical Coordinator for
Emergencies, Regional Office for Africa.

  * Read the story
    <http://www.afro.who.int/news/health-workers-urged-work-communities-stop-marburg>


    WHO supports containment of rare virus on Uganda-Kenya border
    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/2017/virus-uganda-kenya/en/index.html>


<http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/2017/virus-uganda-kenya/en/index.html>

WHO

20 October 2017 - WHO is working to contain an outbreak of Marburg virus
disease that has appeared in eastern Uganda on the border with Kenya.
The Ministry of Health has sent a rapid response team to the area
supported by staff from WHO, the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) and the African Field Epidemiology Network (AFNET).

WHO is providing medical supplies, guidance on safe and dignified
burials, and has released USD 500 000 from its Contingency Fund for
Emergencies to finance immediate response activities.

  * Read the press release
    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/2017/virus-uganda-kenya/en/index.html>

WHO/P. Formenty

Marburg virus disease is a severe and highly fatal disease caused by a
virus from the same family as the one that causes Ebola virus disease.
These viruses are among the most virulent pathogens known to infect
humans. Both diseases are rare, but have a capacity to cause dramatic
outbreaks with high fatality.

Two large outbreaks that occurred simultaneously in Marburg and
Frankfurt in Germany, and in Belgrade, Serbia, in 1967, led to the
initial recognition of the Marburg virus disease. Subsequently,
outbreaks and sporadic cases have been reported in Angola, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Kenya, South Africa and Uganda.

  * Causes

    <#page11>
  * Symptoms

    <#page21>
  * Diagnosis

    <#page31>
  * Treatment

    <#page41>
  * Prevention and control

    <#page51>

Initially, human infection with Marburg virus disease results from
prolonged exposure to mines or caves inhabited by Rousettus bat colonies.
Marburg spreads through human-to-human transmission via direct contact
(through broken skin or mucous membranes) with the blood, secretions,
organs or other bodily fluids of infected people, and with surfaces and
materials (e.g. bedding, clothing) contaminated with these fluids.

  * Read the fact sheet
    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/factsheets/fs_marburg/en/index.html>


The incubation period (interval from infection to onset of symptoms)
varies from 2 to 21 days.
Illness caused by Marburg virus begins abruptly, with high fever, severe
headache and severe malaise. Muscle aches and pains are a common
feature. Severe watery diarrhoea, abdominal pain and cramping, nausea
and vomiting can begin on the third day. Diarrhoea can persist for a
week. The appearance of patients at this phase has been described as
showing “ghost-like” drawn features, deep-set eyes, expressionless
faces, and extreme lethargy. In the 1967 European outbreak, non-itchy
rash was a feature noted in most patients between 2 and 7 days after
onset of symptoms.

Many patients develop severe haemorrhagic manifestations between 5 and 7
days, and fatal cases usually have some form of bleeding, often from
multiple areas. Fresh blood in vomitus and faeces is often accompanied
by bleeding from the nose, gums, and vagina. Spontaneous bleeding at
venepuncture sites (where intravenous access is obtained to give fluids
or obtain blood samples) can be particularly troublesome. During the
severe phase of illness, patients have sustained high fevers.
Involvement of the central nervous system can result in confusion,
irritability, and aggression. Orchitis (inflammation of one or both
testicles) has been reported occasionally in the late phase of disease
(15 days).

In fatal cases, death occurs most often between 8 and 9 days after
symptom onset, usually preceded by severe blood loss and shock.

It can be difficult to clinically distinguish MVD from other infectious
diseases such as malaria, typhoid fever, shigellosis, meningitis and
other viral haemorrhagic fevers. Confirmation that symptoms are caused
by Marburg virus infection are made using the following diagnostic methods:

  * 1. antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA);
  * 2. antigen detection tests;
  * 3. serum neutralization tests;
  * 4. reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay; and
  * 5. virus isolation by cell culture



Samples collected from patients are an extreme biohazard risk;
laboratory testing on non-inactivated samples should be conducted under
maximum biological containment conditions. All biological specimens
should be packaged using the triple packaging system when transported
nationally and internationally.

Supportive care – rehydration with oral or intravenous fluids – and
treatment of specific symptoms, improves survival. There is as yet no
proven treatment available for Marburg virus disease. However, a range
of potential treatments including blood products, immune therapies and
drug therapies are currently being evaluated.

Good outbreak control relies on applying a package of interventions,
namely case management, surveillance and contact tracing, a good
laboratory service, safe and dignified burials, and social mobilization.
Community engagement is key to successfully controlling outbreaks.
Raising awareness of risk factors for Marburg infection and protective
measures that individuals can take is an effective way to reduce human
transmission.

Healthcare workers should always take standard precautions when caring
for patients, regardless of their presumed diagnosis. These include
basic hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene, use of personal protective
equipment (to block splashes or other contact with infected materials),
safe injection practices and safe and dignified burial practices.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Technical information


      Maps

Geographical distribution of Marburg virus disease outbreaks and fruit
bats of /Pteropodidae/ family

  * Enlarge map
    png, 149kb
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/marburg/GlobalMarburgOutbreakRisk_20090510.png>



      Weekly Epidemiological Record

  * Marburg haemorrhagic fever, Uganda
    <http://www.who.int/entity/wer/2012/wer8745/en/index.html>
    9 November 2012
  * Marburg haemorrhagic fever, Uganda
    <http://www.who.int/entity/wer/2012/wer8743/en/index.html>
    26 October 2012
  * Outbreak of Marburg haemorrhagic fever: Uganda June-August 2007
    <http://www.who.int/entity/wer/2007/wer8243/en/index.html>
    26 October 2007 issue
  * Viral haemorrhagic fever/Marburg, Democratic Republic of the Congo
    <http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/230803/1/WER7420.PDF>
    21 May 1999 issue


      Publications

  * Ebola and Marburg virus disease epidemics: preparedness, alert,
    control, and evaluation
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/resources/publications/ebola/manual_EVD/en/index.html>

  * Personal protective equipment for use in a filovirus disease
    outbreak (Rapid advice guideline)
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/resources/publications/ebola/personal-protective-equipment/en/index.html>

  * Infection prevention and control guidance for care of patients in
    health-care settings, with focus on Ebola
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/resources/publications/ebola/filovirus_infection_control/en/index.html>

  * Clinical management of patients with viral haemorrhagic fever, a
    pocket guide for the front-line health workers
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/resources/publications/clinical-management-patients/en/index.html>


  * All technical guidance on Marburg
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/marburg/technical-guidance/en/index.html>



      Disease outbreak news

  * 15 November 2017
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/don/15-november-2017-marburg-uganda-kenya/en/index.html>

    Marburg virus disease – Uganda and Kenya
  * 7 November 2017
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/don/7-november-2017-marburg/en/index.html>

    Marburg virus disease – Uganda and Kenya
  * 25 October 2017
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/don/25-october-2017-marburg-uganda/en/index.html>

    Marburg virus disease – Uganda

  * Archive list of DONs on Marburg
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/don/archive/disease/marburg_virus_disease/en/index.html>



    General information


      Mediacentre

  * Fact sheet: Marburg virus disease
    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/factsheets/fs_marburg/en/index.html>

  * Download the fact sheet for offline use
    pdf, 483kb
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/marburg/Marburg-fact-sheet-EN-20-Oct-2017.pdf>

  * Managing Marburg fever in Uganda
    <http://www.who.int/features/2007/marburg_fever/en/index.html>
    Photo story, 5 September 2007
  * Experts mine bats in search of Marburg reservoir
    <http://www.who.int/features/2007/marburg_virus/en/index.html>
    Photo story, 17 August 2007
  * Controlling the Marburg outbreak in Angola
    <http://www.who.int/features/2005/marburg/en/index.html>
    Photo story, April-July 2005


      Other haemorrhagic fevers

  * Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/crimean_congoHF/en/index.html>
  * Dengue haemorrhagic fever
    <http://www.who.int/entity/denguecontrol/en/index.html>
  * Ebola virus disease
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/ebola/en/index.html>
  * Lassa fever
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/lassafever/en/index.html>
  * Rift Valley fever
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/riftvalleyfev/en/index.html>
  * Yellow fever
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/yellowfev/en/index.html>


      Related links

  * Pandemic and epidemic diseases (PED)
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/en/index.html>

  * Risk communication
    <http://www.who.int/entity/risk-communication/en/index.html>

  * Knowledge Transfer and Training for Outbreaks
    <http://www.who.int/entity/knowledge-transfer/en/index.html>

  * International Health Regulations (IHR)
    <http://www.who.int/entity/ihr/en/index.html>

  * Ebola virus disease
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/ebola/en/index.html>

  * Haemorrhagic fevers
    <http://www.who.int/topics/haemorrhagic_fevers_viral/en/index.html>

  * WHO Emerging and Dangerous Pathogens Laboratory Network
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/bioriskreduction/laboratorynetwork/en/index.html>



      Contact information

Department of Pandemic and Epidemic Diseases
World Health Organization
Avenue Appia 20
1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland
Email: edpln@who.int <mailto:edpln@who.int>


    You are here:

  * Emergencies preparedness, response <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/en/>
  * Pandemic and Epidemic Diseases (PED)
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/en/>
  * Marburg virus disease
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/disease/marburg/en/>


    Quick Links


      Sitemap

  * Home <http://www.who.int/en/index.html>
  * Health topics <http://www.who.int/topics/en/index.html>
  * Data <http://www.who.int/entity/gho/en/index.html>
  * Media centre <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/en/index.html>
  * Publications <http://www.who.int/publications/en/index.html>
  * Countries <http://www.who.int/countries/en/index.html>
  * Programmes and projects <http://www.who.int/entity/en/index.html>
  * Governance <http://www.who.int/governance/en/index.html>
  * About WHO <http://www.who.int/about/en/index.html>


      Help and Services

  * Contacts <http://www.who.int/about/contacthq/en/index.html>
  * FAQs <http://www.who.int/suggestions/faq/en/index.html>
  * Employment <http://www.who.int/entity/employment/en/index.html>
  * Feedback <http://www.who.int/suggestions/en/index.html>
  * Privacy <http://www.who.int/about/privacy/en/index.html>
  * E-mail scams <http://www.who.int/about/scamalert/en/index.html>


      WHO Regional Offices

  * WHO African Region <http://www.afro.who.int/>
  * WHO Region of the Americas <http://www.paho.org/>
  * WHO South-East Asia Region <http://www.searo.who.int/>
  * WHO European Region <http://www.euro.who.int/>
  * WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region <http://www.emro.who.int/>
  * WHO Western Pacific Region <http://www.wpro.who.int/>

RSSFollow on RSS

<http://www.who.int/about/licensing/rss/en/index.html>YouTubeFollow on
YouTube

<http://www.youtube.com/user/who?sub_confirmation=1>TwitterFollow on Twitter

<http://twitter.com/intent/follow?source=followbutton&variant=1.0&screen_name=who>FacebookFollow
on Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/WHO>Google+Follow on Google Follow

<https://plus.google.com/+who/posts>InstagramFollow on Instagram

<http://instagram.com/who>

<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=uk.co.adappt.whoapp&hl=en>

<https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/who-info/id895463794?mt=8>

© WHO 2017 <http://www.who.int/about/copyright/en/>

Back to top <#>
Email Address

Sign up for WHO updates

<#>

loading

