<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_fever>

  West Nile fever

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: navigation <#mw-head>, search <#p-search>
West Nile fever
Em wnvirus j7908i.jpg
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Em_wnvirus_j7908i.jpg>
West Nile virus
Specialty <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specialty_(medicine)>
Infectious disease
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infectious_disease_(medical_specialty)>
Symptoms 	None, fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fever>, headache,
vomiting, rash^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Complications <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complication_(medicine)>
Encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encephalitis>, meningitis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningitis>^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Usual onset 	2 to 14 days post exposure^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Duration 	Weeks to months^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Causes 	West Nile virus spread by mosquito
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito>^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Diagnostic method <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diagnostic_method>
Based on symptoms and blood tests^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Prevention 	Reducing mosquitoes, preventing mosquito bites^[1]
<#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Treatment 	Supportive care
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supportive_care> (pain medication)^[1]
<#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Prognosis 	10% risk of death among those seriously affected^[1]
<#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
[edit on Wikidata <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q158856>]

*West Nile fever* is a viral infection
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_infection> typically spread by
mosquitoes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito>.^[1]
<#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> In about 75% of infections people have few
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subclinical_infection> or no symptoms
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asymptomatic>.^[1]
<#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> About 20% of people develop a fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fever>, headache, vomiting, or a
rash.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> In less than 1% of people,
encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encephalitis> or meningitis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningitis> occurs, with associated neck
stiffness, confusion, or seizures.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> Recovery
may take weeks to months.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> The risk of death
among those in whom the nervous system
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nervous_system> is affected is about
10%.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>

West Nile virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus> is
typically spread by infected mosquitoes.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>
Mosquitoes become infected when they feed on infected birds.^[1]
<#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> Rarely the virus is spread through blood
transfusions, organ transplants, or from mother to baby during
pregnancy, delivery, or breastfeeding.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> It
otherwise does not spread directly between people.^[2]
<#cite_note-WHO2011-2> Risks for severe disease include age over 60 and
other health problems.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> Diagnosis is
typically based on symptoms and blood tests.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>

There is no human vaccine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaccine>.^[1]
<#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> The best method to reduce the risk of infections
is avoiding mosquito bites.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> This may be done
by eliminating standing pools of water, such as in old tires, buckets,
gutters, and swimming pools.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> Mosquito
repellent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito_repellent>, window
screens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_screen>, mosquito nets
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito_nets>, and avoiding areas where
mosquitoes occur may also be useful.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> ^[2]
<#cite_note-WHO2011-2> While there is no specific treatment, pain
medications <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pain_medications> may be
useful.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1>

WNV occurs in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, India, Asia, Australia,
and North America.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> In the United States
thousands of cases are reported a year, with most occurring in August
and September.^[3] <#cite_note-3> It can occur in outbreaks of
disease.^[2] <#cite_note-WHO2011-2> The virus was discovered in Uganda
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uganda> in 1937 and was first detected in
North America in 1999.^[1] <#cite_note-CDC2017Q-1> ^[2]
<#cite_note-WHO2011-2> Severe disease may also occur in horses and a
vaccine for these animals is available.^[2] <#cite_note-WHO2011-2> A
surveillance system in birds is useful for early detection of a
potential human outbreak.^[2] <#cite_note-WHO2011-2>


Contents

 [hide] 

  * 1 Signs and symptoms <#Signs_and_symptoms>
  * 2 Virology <#Virology>
      o 2.1 Phylogeny <#Phylogeny>
      o 2.2 Transmission <#Transmission>
          + 2.2.1 Vertical transmission <#Vertical_transmission>
      o 2.3 Risk factors <#Risk_factors>
  * 3 Diagnosis <#Diagnosis>
      o 3.1 Differential diagnosis <#Differential_diagnosis>
  * 4 Prevention <#Prevention>
      o 4.1 Monitoring and control <#Monitoring_and_control>
  * 5 Treatment <#Treatment>
  * 6 Prognosis <#Prognosis>
  * 7 Epidemiology <#Epidemiology>
  * 8 Research <#Research>
  * 9 References <#References>
  * 10 External links <#External_links>


    Signs and symptoms[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=1>]

The incubation period <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incubation_period>
for WNV—the amount of time from infection to symptom onset—is typically
from between 2 and 15 days. Headache can be a prominent symptom of WNV
fever, meningitis, encephalitis, meningoencephalitis, and it may or may
not be present in poliomyelitis-like syndrome. Thus, headache is not a
useful indicator of neuroinvasive disease.

  * *West Nile fever (WNF)*, which occurs in 20 percent of cases, is a
    febrile <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fever> syndrome
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syndrome> that causes flu-like
    symptoms <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flu-like_symptoms>.^[4]
    <#cite_note-4> Most characterizations of WNF generally describe it
    as a mild, acute <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acute_(medicine)>
    syndrome lasting 3 to 6 days after symptom onset. Systematic
    follow-up studies of patients with WNF have not been done, so this
    information is largely anecdotal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anecdotal_evidence>. In addition to a
    high fever, headache, chills, excessive sweating
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diaphoresis>, weakness, fatigue,
    swollen lymph nodes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymphadenopathy>,
    drowsiness, pain in the joints and flu-like symptoms
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flu-like_symptoms>. Gastrointestinal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_gastrointestinal_tract>
    symptoms that may occur include nausea
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nausea>, vomiting
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emesis>, loss of appetite
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anorexia_(symptom)>, and diarrhea
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diarrhea>. Fewer than one-third of
    patients develop a rash <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rash>.
  * *West Nile neuroinvasive disease
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neurotropic_virus> (WNND)*, which
    occurs in less than 1 percent of cases, is when the virus infects
    the central nervous system
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_nervous_system> resulting in
    meningitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningitis>, encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encephalitis>, meningoencephalitis or
    a poliomyelitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poliomyelitis>-like
    syndrome.^[5] <#cite_note-Davis2006-5> Many patients with WNND have
    normal neuroimaging <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuroimaging>
    studies, although abnormalities may be present in various cerebral
    areas including the basal ganglia
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basal_ganglia>, thalamus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thalamus>, cerebellum
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerebellum>, and brainstem
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brainstem>.^[5] <#cite_note-Davis2006-5>
  * *West Nile virus encephalitis (WNE)* is the most common
    neuroinvasive manifestation of WNND. WNE presents with similar
    symptoms to other viral encephalitis with fever, headaches, and
    altered mental status. A prominent finding in WNE is muscular
    weakness <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muscular_weakness> (30 to 50
    percent of patients with encephalitis), often with lower motor
    neuron <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lower_motor_neuron> symptoms,
    flaccid paralysis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flaccid_paralysis>,
    and hyporeflexia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyporeflexia> with
    no sensory <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sensory_system>
    abnormalities.^[6] <#cite_note-6> ^[7] <#cite_note-Carson06-7>
  * *West Nile meningitis (WNM)* usually involves fever, headache, and
    stiff neck. Pleocytosis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pleocytosis>,
    an increase of white blood cells in cerebrospinal fluid, is also
    present. Changes in consciousness are not usually seen and are mild
    when present.
  * *West Nile meningoencephalitis* is inflammation of both the brain
    (encephalitis) and meninges (meningitis).
  * *West Nile poliomyelitis (WNP)*, an acute flaccid paralysis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acute_flaccid_paralysis> syndrome
    associated with WNV infection, is less common than WNM or WNE. This
    syndrome is generally characterized by the acute onset of asymmetric
    limb weakness or paralysis in the absence of sensory loss. Pain
    sometimes precedes the paralysis. The paralysis can occur in the
    absence of fever, headache, or other common symptoms associated with
    WNV infection. Involvement of respiratory muscles, leading to acute
    respiratory failure, can sometimes occur.
  * *West-Nile reversible paralysis*, Like WNP, the weakness or
    paralysis is asymmetric.^[8] <#cite_note-Mojumder2014-8> Reported
    cases have been noted to have an initial preservation of deep tendon
    reflexes, which is not expected for a pure anterior horn
    involvement.^[8] <#cite_note-Mojumder2014-8> Disconnect of upper
    motor neuron influences on the anterior horn cells possibly by
    myelitis or glutamate excitotoxicity have been suggested as
    mechanisms.^[8] <#cite_note-Mojumder2014-8> The prognosis for
    recovery is excellent.
  * *Nonneurologic complications* of WNV infection that may rarely occur
    include fulminant hepatitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hepatitis>, pancreatitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pancreatitis>,^[9] <#cite_note-9>
    myocarditis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myocarditis>,
    rhabdomyolysis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdomyolysis>,^[10]
    <#cite_note-10> orchitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orchitis>,^[11] <#cite_note-11>
    nephritis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nephritis>, optic neuritis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optic_neuritis>^[12] <#cite_note-12>
    and cardiac dysrhythmias
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardiac_dysrhythmia> and hemorrhagic
    fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hemorrhagic_fever> with
    coagulopathy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coagulopathy>.^[13]
    <#cite_note-13> Chorioretinitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chorioretinitis> may also be more
    common than previously thought.^[14] <#cite_note-14>
  * *Cutaneous manifestations* specifically rashes, are not uncommon in
    WNV-infected patients; however, there is a paucity of detailed
    descriptions in case reports and there are few clinical images
    widely available. Punctate erythematous, macular, and papular
    eruptions, most pronounced on the extremities have been observed in
    WNV cases and in some cases histopathologic findings have shown a
    sparse superficial perivascular
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pericyte> lymphocytic infiltrate, a
    manifestation commonly seen in viral exanthems. A literature review
    provides support that this punctate rash is a common cutaneous
    presentation of WNV infection.^[15] <#cite_note-15>


    Virology[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=2>]

/West Nile virus/
Em wnvirus j7908i.jpg
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Em_wnvirus_j7908i.jpg>
Virus classification <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus_classification>
Group: 	Group IV ((+)ssRNA
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positive-sense_ssRNA_virus>)
Order: 	/Unassigned/
Family: 	/Flaviviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flaviviridae>/
Genus: 	/Flavivirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flavivirus>/
Species: 	/*West Nile virus*/

Main article: West nile virus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_nile_virus>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:WNV_life_cycle.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:WNV_life_cycle.jpg>
West Nile virus life cycle. After binding and uptake, the virion
envelope fuses with cellular membranes, followed by uncoating of the
nucleocapsid and release of the RNA genome into the cytoplasm. The viral
genome serves as messenger RNA (mRNA) for translation of all viral
proteins and as template during RNA replication. Copies are subsequently
packaged within new virus particles that are transported in vesicles to
the cell membrane.

WNV is one of the Japanese encephalitis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_encephalitis> antigenic
serocomplex <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serotype> of viruses. Image
reconstructions and cryoelectron microscopy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryoelectron_microscopy> reveal a
45–50 nm virion <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virion> covered with a
relatively smooth protein <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protein>
surface. This structure is similar to the dengue fever
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dengue_fever> virus; both belong to the
genus /Flavivirus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flavivirus>/ within the
family /Flaviviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flaviviridae>/. The
genetic material of WNV is a positive-sense
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sense_(molecular_biology)>, single strand
of RNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA>, which is between 11,000 and
12,000 nucleotides <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nucleotide> long;
these genes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genes> encode seven
nonstructural proteins and three structural proteins. The RNA strand is
held within a nucleocapsid formed from 12-kDa
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KDa> protein blocks; the capsid is
contained within a host-derived membrane
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biological_membrane> altered by two viral
glycoproteins <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glycoprotein>.


      Phylogeny[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=3>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Phylogenetic_tree_of_West_Nile_viruses.gif>


<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Phylogenetic_tree_of_West_Nile_viruses.gif>
Phylogenetic tree <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phylogeny> of West Nile
viruses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus> based on sequencing of the
envelope <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_envelope> gene
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene> during complete genome sequencing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complete_genome_sequencing> of the
virus^[16] <#cite_note-16>

Studies of phylogenetic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phylogeny>
lineages determined WNV emerged as a distinct virus around 1000 years
ago.^[17] <#cite_note-17> This initial virus developed into two distinct
lineages. Lineage 1 and its multiple profiles is the source of the
epidemic transmission in Africa and throughout the world. Lineage 2 was
considered an African zoonosis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoonosis>.
However, in 2008, lineage 2, previously only seen in horses in
sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar, began to appear in horses in Europe,
where the first known outbreak affected 18 animals in Hungary in
2008.^[18] <#cite_note-18> Lineage 1 West Nile virus was detected in
South Africa in 2010 in a mare <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mare> and
her aborted fetus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fetus>; previously,
only lineage 2 West Nile virus had been detected in horses and humans in
South Africa.^[19] <#cite_note-19> A 2007 fatal case in a killer whale
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killer_whale> in Texas
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas> broadened the known host range
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Host_range> of West Nile virus to include
cetaceans <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cetacean>.^[20] <#cite_note-20>

The United States virus was very closely related to a lineage 1 strain
found in Israel in 1998. Since the first North American cases in 1999,
the virus has been reported throughout the United States, Canada,
Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central America. There have been human cases
and equine cases, and many birds are infected. The Barbary macaque
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbary_macaque>, /Macaca sylvanus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macaca_sylvanus>/, was the first nonhuman
primate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primate> to contract WNV.^[21]
<#cite_note-21> Both the United States and Israeli strains are marked by
high mortality rates in infected avian populations; the presence of dead
birds—especially Corvidae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corvidae>—can
be an early indicator of the arrival of the virus.


      Transmission[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=4>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:West_Nile_virus_transmission_cycle.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:West_Nile_virus_transmission_cycle.jpg>
West Nile virus maintains itself in nature by cycling between mosquitoes
in the genus Culex and certain species of birds. A mosquito (the vector
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_(epidemiology)>) bites an
uninfected bird (the host
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Host_(biology)>), the virus amplifies
within the bird, an uninfected mosquito bites the bird and is in turn
infected. Other species such as humans and horses are incidental
infections, because the virus does not amplify well within these species
and they are considered dead-end hosts.

The prime method of spread of the West Nile virus (WNV) is the female
mosquito. Only female feeds on blood. In Europe, cats were identified as
being hosts <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feline_zoonosis> for West
Nile virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus>.^[22]
<#cite_note-RijksCito2016-22> The important mosquito vectors vary
according to area; in the United States, /Culex pipiens
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culex_pipiens>/ (Eastern United States,
and urban and residential areas of the United States north of 36–39°N),
/Culex tarsalis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culex_tarsalis>/ (Midwest
and West), and /Culex quinquefasciatus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culex_quinquefasciatus>/ (Southeast) are
the main vector species.^[23] <#cite_note-23>

The mosquito species that are most frequently infected with WNV feed
primarily on birds.^[24] <#cite_note-Kilpatrick_2011-24> Different
species of mosquitos take a blood meal
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hematophagy> from different types of
vertebrate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertebrate> hosts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Host_(biology)>, Mosquitoes show further
selectivity, exhibiting preference for different species
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Species> of birds. In the United States,
WNV mosquito vectors feed preferentially on members of the Corvidae
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corvidae> and thrush
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrush_(bird)> family
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Family_(biology)>. Among the preferred
species within these families are the American crow
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_crow>, a corvid, and the
American robin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_robin> (/Turdus
migratorius/).^[25] <#cite_note-Kilpatrick_2006A-25>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:CulexNil.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:CulexNil.jpg>
The proboscis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proboscis> of a female
mosquito—here a southern house mosquito (/Culex
quinquefasciatus/)—pierces the epidermis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epidermis_(skin)> and dermis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dermis> to allow it to feed on human
blood from a capillary <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capillary>: this
one is almost fully tumescent. The mosquito injects saliva
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saliva>, which contains an anesthetic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anesthetic>, and an anticoagulant
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anticoagulant> into the puncture wound,
and in infected mosquitoes, West Nile virus.

Some species of birds develop sufficient viral levels (>~10^4.2 log
PFU/ml;^[26] <#cite_note-Kilpatrick_2007-26> ) after being infected to
transmit the infection to biting mosquitoes that in turn go on to infect
other birds. In birds that die from WNV, death usually occurs after 4 to
6 days.^[27] <#cite_note-Komar_2003-27> In mammals and several species
of birds, the virus does not multiply as readily and so does not develop
high viremia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viremia> during infection.
Mosquitoes biting such hosts are not believed to ingest sufficient virus
to become infected, making them so-called dead-end hosts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Host_(biology)>.^[26]
<#cite_note-Kilpatrick_2007-26> As a result of the differential
infectiousness of hosts, the feeding patterns of mosquitoes play an
important role in WNV transmission,^[24] <#cite_note-Kilpatrick_2011-24>
^[25] <#cite_note-Kilpatrick_2006A-25> and they are partly genetically
controlled, even within a species.

Direct human-to-human transmission initially was believed to be caused
only by occupational exposure, such as in a laboratory setting,^[28]
<#cite_note-28> or conjunctive exposure to infected blood.^[29]
<#cite_note-29> The US outbreak identified additional transmission
methods through blood transfusion,^[30] <#cite_note-30> organ
transplant,^[31] <#cite_note-31> intrauterine exposure,^[32]
<#cite_note-32> and breast feeding.^[33] <#cite_note-33> Since 2003,
blood banks in the United States routinely screen for the virus among
their donors.^[34] <#cite_note-34> As a precautionary measure, the UK's
National Blood Service
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Blood_Service> initially ran a
test for this disease in donors who donate within 28 days of a visit to
the United States, Canada, or the northeastern provinces of Italy, and
the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scottish_National_Blood_Transfusion_Service>^[35]
<#cite_note-35> asks prospective donors to wait 28 days after returning
from North America or the northeastern provinces of Italy before
donating. There also have been reports of possible transmission of the
virus from mother to child during pregnancy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pregnancy> or breastfeeding
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breastfeeding> or exposure to the virus
in a lab, but these are rare cases and not conclusively confirmed.^[36]
<#cite_note-Mayo_Clinic-36>

Recently, the potential for mosquito saliva
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito#Saliva> to affect the course of
WNV disease was demonstrated.^[37] <#cite_note-pmid18000543-37> ^[38]
<#cite_note-pmid16896145-38> ^[39] <#cite_note-pmid16553552-39>
Mosquitoes inoculate their saliva into the skin while obtaining blood.
Mosquito saliva is a pharmacological cocktail of secreted molecules,
principally proteins, that can affect vascular constriction, blood
coagulation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood_coagulation>, platelet
aggregation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platelet_aggregation>,
inflammation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inflammation>, and immunity
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunity_(medical)>. It clearly alters
the immune response <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immune_response> in a
manner that may be advantageous to a virus.^[40]
<#cite_note-pmid15541033-40> ^[41] <#cite_note-pmid12693849-41> ^[42]
<#cite_note-pmid15189245-42> ^[43] <#cite_note-pmid10081770-43> Studies
have shown it can specifically modulate the immune response during early
virus infection,^[44] <#cite_note-pmid15671753-44> and mosquito feeding
can exacerbate WNV infection, leading to higher viremia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viremia> and more severe forms of
disease.^[37] <#cite_note-pmid18000543-37> ^[38]
<#cite_note-pmid16896145-38> ^[39] <#cite_note-pmid16553552-39>


        Vertical transmission[edit
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=5>]

Vertical transmission
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertical_transmission>, the transmission
of a viral or bacterial disease from the female of the species to her
offspring, has been observed in various West Nile virus studies, amongst
different species of mosquitoes in both the laboratory and in
nature.^[45] <#cite_note-45> Mosquito progeny infected vertically in
autumn, may potentially serve as a mechanism for WNV to overwinter and
initiate enzootic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enzootic> horizontal
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horizontal_disease_transmission>
transmission the following spring, although it likely plays little role
in transmission in the summer and fall.^[46] <#cite_note-46>


      Risk factors[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=6>]

Risk factors independently associated with developing a clinical
infection with WNV include a suppressed immune system and a patient
history of organ transplantation.^[47] <#cite_note-47> For neuroinvasive
disease the additional risk factors include older age (>50+), male sex,
hypertension <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertension>, and diabetes
mellitus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diabetes_mellitus>.^[48]
<#cite_note-48> ^[49] <#cite_note-49>

A genetic factor also appears to increase susceptibility to West Nile
disease. A mutation of the gene /CCR5
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CCR5>/ gives some protection against HIV
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HIV> but leads to more serious
complications of WNV infection. Carriers of two mutated copies of /CCR5/
made up 4.0 to 4.5% of a sample of West Nile disease sufferers, while
the incidence of the gene in the general population is only 1.0%.^[50]
<#cite_note-50> ^[51] <#cite_note-51>


    Diagnosis[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=7>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:IgM.png>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:IgM.png>
An immunoglobulin M <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IgM> antibody
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibody> molecule
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molecule>: Definitive diagnosis of WNV is
obtained through detection of virus-specific IgM and neutralizing
antibodies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutralizing_antibody>.

Preliminary diagnosis is often based on the patient's clinical symptoms,
places and dates of travel (if patient is from a nonendemic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endemic> country or area), activities,
and epidemiologic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epidemiology> history
of the location where infection occurred. A recent history of mosquito
bites and an acute febrile illness associated with neurologic signs and
symptoms should cause clinical suspicion of WNV.

Diagnosis of West Nile virus infections is generally accomplished by
serologic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serology> testing of blood
serum <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood_serum> or cerebrospinal fluid
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerebrospinal_fluid> (CSF), which is
obtained via a lumbar puncture
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lumbar_puncture>. Initial screening could
be done using the ELISA technique detecting immunoglobulins in the sera
of the tested individuals.

Typical findings of WNV infection include lymphocytic pleocytosis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymphocytic_pleocytosis>, elevated
protein <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protein> level, reference glucose
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glucose> and lactic acid
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lactic_acid> levels, and no erythrocytes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erythrocytes>.

Definitive diagnosis of WNV is obtained through detection of
virus-specific antibody <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibody> IgM and
neutralizing antibodies
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutralizing_antibody>. Cases of West
Nile virus meningitis and encephalitis that have been serologically
confirmed produce similar degrees of CSF pleocytosis and are often
associated with substantial CSF neutrophilia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutrophilia>.^[52] <#cite_note-52>
Specimens collected within eight days following onset of illness may not
test positive for West Nile IgM, and testing should be repeated. A
positive test for West Nile IgG
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunoglobulin_G> in the absence of a
positive West Nile IgM is indicative of a previous flavavirus infection
and is not by itself evidence of an acute West Nile virus
infection.^[53] <#cite_note-53>

If cases of suspected West Nile virus infection, sera should be
collected on both the acute and convalescent phases of the illness.
Convalescent specimens should be collected 2–3 weeks after acute specimens.

It is common in serologic testing for cross-reactions
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-reactivity> to occur among
flaviviruses such as dengue virus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dengue_virus> (DENV) and tick-borne
encephalitis virus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick-borne_encephalitis_virus>; this
necessitates caution when evaluating serologic results of flaviviral
infections.^[54] <#cite_note-54>

Four FDA
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_and_Drug_Administration>-cleared WNV
IgM ELISA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ELISA> kits are commercially
available from different manufacturers in the U.S., each of these kits
is indicated for use on serum to aid in the presumptive laboratory
diagnosis of WNV infection in patients with clinical symptoms of
meningitis or encephalitis. Positive WNV test results obtained via use
of these kits should be confirmed by additional testing at a state
health department laboratory or CDC.

In fatal cases, nucleic acid
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nucleic_acid> amplification,
histopathology <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Histopathology> with
immunohistochemistry
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunohistochemistry>, and virus culture
of autopsy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autopsy> tissues can also be
useful. Only a few state laboratories or other specialized laboratories,
including those at CDC, are capable of doing this specialized testing.


      Differential diagnosis[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=8>]

A number of various diseases may present with symptoms similar to those
caused by a clinical West Nile virus infection. Those causing
neuroinvasive disease symptoms include the enterovirus infection
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enteroviruses> and bacterial meningitis.
Accounting for differential diagnoses
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differential_diagnoses> is a crucial step
in the definitive diagnosis of WNV infection. Consideration of a
differential diagnosis is required when a patient presents with
unexplained febrile illness, extreme headache, encephalitis or
meningitis. Diagnostic and serologic laboratory testing using polymerase
chain reaction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymerase_chain_reaction>
(PCR) testing and viral culture
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_culture> of CSF to identify the
specific pathogen causing the symptoms, is the only currently available
means of differentiating between causes of encephalitis and meningitis.


    Prevention[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=9>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Mosquito_Netting.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Mosquito_Netting.jpg>
Low-cost, ceiling hung mosquito netting
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito_netting> for a bed

Personal protective measures can be taken to greatly reduce the risk of
being bitten by an infected mosquito:

  * Using insect repellent on exposed skin to repel mosquitoes.
    EPA-registered
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environmental_Protection_Agency>
    repellents include products containing DEET
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DEET> (N,N-diethylmetatoluamide) and
    picaridin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Picaridin> (KBR 3023). DEET
    concentrations of 30% to 50% are effective for several hours.
    Picaridin, available at 7% and 15% concentrations, needs more
    frequent application. DEET formulations as high as 30% are
    recommended for children over two months of age.^[55]
    <#cite_note-55> Protect infants less than two months of age by using
    a carrier draped with mosquito netting
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito_netting> with an elastic
    edge for a tight fit.
  * When using sunscreen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunscreen>,
    apply sunscreen first and then repellent. Repellent should be washed
    off at the end of the day before going to bed.
  * Wear long-sleeve shirts, which should be tucked in, long pants,
    socks, and hats to cover exposed skin. Insect repellents should be
    applied over top of protective clothing for greater protection. Do
    not apply insect repellents underneath clothing.
  * The application of permethrin
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permethrin>-containing (/e.g./,
    Permanone) or other insect repellents to clothing, shoes, tents,
    mosquito nets, and other gear for greater protection. Permethrin is
    not labeled for use directly on skin. Most repellent is generally
    removed from clothing and gear by a single washing, but
    permethrin-treated clothing is effective for up to five washings.
  * Be aware that most mosquitoes that transmit disease are most active
    during twilight periods (dawn and dusk or in the evening). A notable
    exception is the Asian tiger mosquito
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asian_tiger_mosquito>, which is a
    daytime feeder and is more apt to be found in, or on the periphery
    of, shaded areas with heavy vegetation. They are now widespread in
    the United States, and in Florida they have been found in all 67
    counties.^[56] <#cite_note-A_albopictus-56>
  * Staying in air-conditioned or well-screened
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_screen> housing, and/or
    sleeping under an insecticide-treated bed net
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito_net>. Bed nets should be
    tucked under mattresses and can be sprayed with a repellent if not
    already treated with an insecticide.


      Monitoring and control[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=10>]

West Nile virus can be sampled from the environment by the pooling of
trapped mosquitoes via ovitraps <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ovitrap>,
carbon dioxide <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_dioxide>-baited
light traps, and gravid <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravid> traps,
testing blood samples drawn from wild birds, dogs, and sentinel monkeys,
as well as testing brains of dead birds found by various animal control
agencies and the public.

Testing of the mosquito samples requires the use of
reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RT-PCR>) to directly amplify and show the
presence of virus in the submitted samples. When using the blood sera of
wild birds and sentinel chickens, samples must be tested for the
presence of WNV antibodies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibodies> by
use of immunohistochemistry
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunohistochemistry> (IHC)^[57]
<#cite_note-57> or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enzyme-linked_immunosorbent_assay>
(ELISA).^[58] <#cite_note-58>

Dead birds, after necropsy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Necropsy>, or
their oral swab samples collected on specific RNA-preserving filter
paper card,^[59] <#cite_note-59> ^[60] <#cite_note-60> can have their
virus presence tested by either RT-PCR or IHC, where virus shows up as
brown-stained tissue because of a substrate-enzyme
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enzyme> reaction.

West Nile control is achieved through mosquito control
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito_control>, by elimination of
mosquito breeding sites such as abandoned pools, applying larvacide
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larvacide> to active breeding areas, and
targeting the adult population via lethal ovitraps
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lethal_ovitrap> and aerial spraying
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aerial_spraying> of pesticides
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pesticide>.

Environmentalists <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environmentalist> have
condemned attempts to control the transmitting mosquitoes by spraying
pesticide, saying the detrimental health effects of spraying outweigh
the relatively few lives that may be saved, and more environmentally
friendly ways of controlling mosquitoes are available. They also
question the effectiveness of insecticide spraying, as they believe
mosquitoes that are resting or flying above the level of spraying will
not be killed; the most common vector in the northeastern United States,
/Culex pipiens/, is a canopy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canopy_(forest)> feeder.

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:CDC-LightTrap_200.jpg>

    A carbon dioxide
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_dioxide>-baited CDC light trap
    at NPSmonitoring
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Park_Service> site: The
    highest individual light trap total for 2010 was from a trap located
    in a salt marsh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_marsh> in the
    Fire Island National Seashore
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fire_Island_National_Seashore>:
    around 25,142 mosquitoes were collected during a 16-hour period on
    August 31.^[61] <#cite_note-61>

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Culex_sp_larvae.png>

    Eggs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insect_egg> of permanent water
    mosquitoes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito> can hatch, and
    the larvae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larvae> survive, in only a
    few ounces of water. Less than half the amount that may collect in a
    discarded coffee cup. Floodwater
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flood> species lay their eggs on wet
    soil or other moist surfaces. Hatch time is variable for both types;
    under favorable circumstances (such as warm weather), the eggs of
    some species may hatch in as few as 1–3 days after being laid
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oviposition>.^[62] <#cite_note-62>

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Used_tires.jpg>

    Used tires <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tires> often hold stagnant
    water <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stagnant_water> and are a
    breeding ground for many species
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Species> of mosquitoes. Some species
    such as the Asian tiger mosquito
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aedes_albopictus> prefer manmade
    containers, such as tires, in which to lay their eggs. The rapid
    spread of this aggressive daytime feeding species beyond their
    native range <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invasive_species> has
    been attributed to the used tire trade.^[56]
    <#cite_note-A_albopictus-56> ^[63] <#cite_note-63>


    Treatment[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=11>]

Most people recover from West Nile virus without treatment. No specific
treatment is available for WNV infection. In mild cases over the counter
pain relievers can help ease mild headaches and muscle aches in adults.
In severe cases treatment consists of supportive care that often
involves hospitalization, intravenous fluids
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intravenous_fluids>, pain medication,
respiratory support, and prevention of secondary infections.


    Prognosis[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=12>]

While the general prognosis is favorable, current studies indicate that
West Nile Fever can often be more severe than previously recognized,
with studies of various recent outbreaks indicating that it may take as
long as 60–90 days to recover.^[7] <#cite_note-Carson06-7> ^[64]
<#cite_note-64> People with milder WNF are just as likely as those with
more severe manifestations of neuroinvasive disease to experience
multiple long term (>1+ years) somatic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Somatic_nervous_system> complaints such
as tremor, and dysfunction in motor skills
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motor_skill> and executive functions
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_functions>. People with milder
illness are just as likely as people with more severe illness to
experience adverse outcomes.^[65] <#cite_note-65> Recovery is marked by
a long convalescence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convalescence> with
fatigue <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatigue_(medical)>. One study
found that neuroinvasive WNV infection was associated with an increased
risk for subsequent kidney disease.^[66] <#cite_note-66> ^[67]
<#cite_note-67>


    Epidemiology[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=13>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Global_distribution_of_West_Nile_virus-CDC.gif>


<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Global_distribution_of_West_Nile_virus-CDC.gif>
Global distribution of West Nile virus (2006)
See also: List of West Nile virus outbreaks
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_West_Nile_virus_outbreaks> and
West Nile virus in the United States
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus_in_the_United_States>

WNV was first isolated from a feverish 37-year-old woman at Omogo in the
West Nile District <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_sub-region>
of Uganda <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uganda> in 1937 during research
on yellow fever virus
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_fever_virus>.^[68] <#cite_note-68>
A series of serosurveys <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serosurvey> in
1939 in central Africa found anti-WNV positive results ranging from 1.4%
(Congo) to 46.4% (White Nile region, Sudan). It was subsequently
identified in Egypt <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egypt> (1942) and
India (1953), a 1950 serosurvey in Egypt found 90% of those over 40
years in age had WNV antibodies. The ecology was characterized in 1953
with studies in Egypt <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egypt>^[69]
<#cite_note-69> and Israel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israel>.^[70]
<#cite_note-70> The virus became recognized as a cause of severe human
meningoencephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningoencephalitis>
in elderly patients during an outbreak in Israel in 1957. The disease
was first noted in horses in Egypt and France in the early 1960s and
found to be widespread in southern Europe, southwest Asia and Australia.

The first appearance of WNV in the Western Hemisphere was in 1999^[71]
<#cite_note-Nash01-71> with encephalitis reported in humans, dogs, cats,
and horses, and the subsequent spread in the United States may be an
important milestone in the evolving history of this virus. The American
outbreak began in College Point, Queens
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/College_Point,_Queens> in New York City
and was later spread to the neighboring states of New Jersey
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Jersey> and Connecticut
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut>. The virus is believed to
have entered in an infected bird or mosquito, although there is no clear
evidence.^[72] <#cite_note-72> West Nile virus is now endemic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endemic> in Africa, Europe, the Middle
East, west and central Asia, Oceania (subtype Kunjin
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kunjin_virus>), and most recently, North
America and is spreading into Central and South America.

Outbreaks of West Nile virus encephalitis in humans have occurred in
Algeria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algeria> (1994), Romania
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romania> (1996 to 1997), the Czech
Republic (1997), Congo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo> (1998),
Russia (1999), the United States (1999 to 2009), Canada (1999–2007),
Israel (2000) and Greece (2010).

Epizootics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epizootic> of disease in
horses occurred in Morocco <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morocco>
(1996), Italy (1998), the United States (1999 to 2001), and France
(2000), Mexico (2003) and Sardinia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sardinia> (2011).

Outdoor workers (including biological fieldworkers, construction
workers, farmers, landscapers, and painters), healthcare personnel, and
laboratory personnel who perform necropsies on animals are at risk of
contracting WNV.^[73] <#cite_note-73>

In 2012, the US experienced one of its worst epidemics
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epidemic> in which 286 people died, with
the state of Texas being hard hit by this virus.^[74]
<#cite_note-pmid24210089-74> ^[75] <#cite_note-75>


    Research[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=14>]

A vaccine for horses (ATCvet <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ATCvet>
code: QI05AA10 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ATC_code_I05> (WHO
<https://www.whocc.no/atcvet/atcvet_index/?code=QI05AA10>)) based on
killed viruses exists; some zoos <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoo>
have given this vaccine to their birds, although its effectiveness is
unknown. Dogs and cats show few if any signs of infection. There have
been no known cases of direct canine-human or feline-human transmission;
although these pets can become infected, it is unlikely they are, in
turn, capable of infecting native mosquitoes and thus continuing the
disease cycle.^[76] <#cite_note-76> AMD3100
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMD3100>, which had been proposed as an
antiretroviral drug for HIV, has shown promise against West Nile
encephalitis. Morpholino <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morpholino>
antisense oligos conjugated to cell penetrating peptides
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cell_penetrating_peptide> have been shown
to partially protect mice from WNV disease.^[77] <#cite_note-77> There
have also been attempts to treat infections using ribavirin
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribavirin>, intravenous immunoglobulin
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunoglobulin>, or alpha interferon
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpha_interferon>.^[78] <#cite_note-78>
GenoMed, a U.S. biotech company, has found that blocking angiotensin II
can treat the "cytokine storm
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cytokine_storm>" of West Nile virus
encephalitis as well as other viruses.^[79] <#cite_note-79>

A vaccine called Chimerivax-WNV is being actively researched and has
undergone phase II Clinical trials
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phases_of_clinical_research#Phase_II> in
2011.^[80] <#cite_note-80> ^[81] <#cite_note-81> ^[/needs update
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Dates_and_numbers#Chronological_items>/]



    References[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=15>]

 1. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-6> ^/*h*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-7> ^/*i*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-8> ^/*j*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-9> ^/*k*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-10> ^/*l*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-11> ^/*m*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-12> ^/*n*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-13> ^/*o*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-14> ^/*p*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-15> ^/*q*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-16> ^/*r*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-17> ^/*s*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-18> ^/*t*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-19> ^/*u*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-20> ^/*v*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-21> ^/*w*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-22> ^/*x*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-23> ^/*y*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-24> ^/*z*/
    <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-25> ^/*aa*/ <#cite_ref-CDC2017Q_1-26> "General
    Questions About West Nile Virus"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/westnile/faq/genQuestions.html>. /www.cdc.gov/.
    19 October 2017. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20171026111330/https://www.cdc.gov/westnile/faq/genQuestions.html>
    from the original on 26 October 2017. Retrieved 26 October 2017. 
 2. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2011_2-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2011_2-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2011_2-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2011_2-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-WHO2011_2-4> ^/*f*/
    <#cite_ref-WHO2011_2-5> "West Nile virus"
    <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/en/>. /World Health
    Organization/. July 2011. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20171018044431/http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/en/>
    from the original on 18 October 2017. Retrieved 28 October 2017. 
 3. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-3>* "Final Cumulative Maps and Data | West
    Nile Virus | CDC"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/westnile/statsmaps/cumMapsData.html>.
    /www.cdc.gov/. 24 October 2017. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20171027180705/https://www.cdc.gov/westnile/statsmaps/cumMapsData.html>
    from the original on 27 October 2017. Retrieved 28 October 2017. 
 4. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-4>* Olejnik E (1952). "Infectious adenitis
    transmitted by /Culex molestus"./ Bull Res Counc Isr/. *2*: 210–1.// /
 5. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Davis2006_5-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Davis2006_5-1> Davis LE, DeBiasi R, Goade DE, et al. (Sep
    2006). "West Nile virus neuroinvasive disease". /Ann Neurol/. *60*
    (3): 286–300. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1002/ana.20959
    <https://doi.org/10.1002%2Fana.20959>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16983682
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16983682>. 
 6. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-6>* Flores Anticona EM, Zainah H, Ouellette
    DR, Johnson LE (2012). "Two case reports of neuroinvasive west nile
    virus infection in the critical care unit"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3433121>. /Case Rep
    Infect Dis/. *2012*: 839458. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1155/2012/839458
    <https://doi.org/10.1155%2F2012%2F839458>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3433121
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3433121> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 22966470
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22966470>. 
 7. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Carson06_7-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Carson06_7-1> Carson PJ, Konewko P, Wold KS, et al.
    (2006). "Long-term clinical and neuropsychological outcomes of West
    Nile virus infection". /Clin. Infect. Dis/. *43* (6): 723–30. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1086/506939
    <https://doi.org/10.1086%2F506939>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16912946
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16912946>. 
 8. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Mojumder2014_8-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Mojumder2014_8-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Mojumder2014_8-2>
    Mojumder, D. K., Agosto, M., Wilms, H.; et al. (March 2014). "Is
    initial preservation of deep tendon reflexes in West Nile Virus
    paralysis a good prognostic sign?"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4229851>. /Neurology
    Asia/. *19* (1): 93–97. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 4229851
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4229851> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 25400704
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25400704>. CS1 maint: Multiple
    names: authors list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Multiple_names:_authors_list>)
 9. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-9>* Asnis DS, Conetta R, Teixeira AA, Waldman
    G, Sampson BA (March 2000). "The West Nile Virus outbreak of 1999 in
    New York: the Flushing Hospital experience". /Clin. Infect. Dis/.
    *30* (3): 413–8. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1086/313737
    <https://doi.org/10.1086%2F313737>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 10722421
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10722421>. 
10. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-10>* Montgomery SP, Chow CC, Smith SW, Marfin
    AA, O'Leary DR, Campbell GL (2005). "Rhabdomyolysis in patients with
    west nile encephalitis and meningitis". /Vector-Borne and Zoonotic
    Diseases/. *5* (3): 252–7. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1089/vbz.2005.5.252
    <https://doi.org/10.1089%2Fvbz.2005.5.252>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16187894
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16187894>. 
11. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-11>* Smith RD, Konoplev S, DeCourten-Myers G,
    Brown T (February 2004). "West Nile virus encephalitis with myositis
    and orchitis". /Hum. Pathol/. *35* (2): 254–8. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.humpath.2003.09.007
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.humpath.2003.09.007>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 14991545
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14991545>. 
12. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-12>* Anninger WV, Lomeo MD, Dingle J, Epstein
    AD, Lubow M (2003). "West Nile virus-associated optic neuritis and
    chorioretinitis". /Am. J. Ophthalmol/. *136* (6): 1183–5. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/S0002-9394(03)00738-4
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0002-9394%2803%2900738-4>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 14644244
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14644244>. 
13. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-13>* Paddock CD, Nicholson WL, Bhatnagar J, et
    al. (June 2006). "Fatal hemorrhagic fever caused by West Nile virus
    in the United States". /Clin. Infect. Dis/. *42* (11): 1527–35. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1086/503841
    <https://doi.org/10.1086%2F503841>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16652309
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16652309>. 
14. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-14>* Shaikh S, Trese MT (2004). "West Nile
    virus chorioretinitis"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1772450>. /Br J
    Ophthalmol/. *88* (12): 1599–60. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1136/bjo.2004.049460
    <https://doi.org/10.1136%2Fbjo.2004.049460>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 1772450
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1772450> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15548822
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15548822>. 
15. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-15>* Anderson RC, Horn KB, Hoang MP, Gottlieb
    E, Bennin B (November 2004). "Punctate exanthem of West Nile Virus
    infection: report of 3 cases". /J. Am. Acad. Dermatol/. *51* (5):
    820–3. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.jaad.2004.05.031
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.jaad.2004.05.031>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15523368
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15523368>. 
16. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-16>* Lanciotti RS, Ebel GD, Deubel V, et al.
    (June 2002). "Complete genome sequences and phylogenetic analysis of
    West Nile virus strains isolated from the United States, Europe, and
    the Middle East". /Virology/. *298* (1): 96–105. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1006/viro.2002.1449
    <https://doi.org/10.1006%2Fviro.2002.1449>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12093177
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12093177>. 
17. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-17>* Galli M, Bernini F, Zehender G (July
    2004). "Alexander the Great and West Nile virus encephalitis".
    /Emerging Infect. Dis/. *10* (7): 1330–2; author reply 1332–3. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1007.040396
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1007.040396>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15338540
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15338540>. 
18. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-18>* West, Christy (2010-02-08). "Different
    West Nile Virus Genetic Lineage Evolving?"
    <http://www.thehorse.com/ViewArticle.aspx?ID=15779>. /The Horse/.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20100217033448/http://www.thehorse.com/ViewArticle.aspx?ID=15779>
    from the original on 2010-02-17. Retrieved 2010-02-10.  From
    statements by Orsolya Kutasi, DVM, of the Szent Istvan University,
    Hungary at the 2009 American Association of Equine Practitioners
    Convention, December 5–9, 2009.
19. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-19>* Venter M, Human S, van Niekerk S,
    Williams J, van Eeden C, Freeman F (August 2011). "Fatal neurologic
    disease and abortion in mare infected with lineage 1 West Nile
    virus, South Africa"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3381566>. /Emerging
    Infect. Dis/. *17* (8): 1534–6. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1708.101794
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1708.101794>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3381566
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3381566> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21801644
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21801644>. 
20. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-20>* St Leger J, Wu G, Anderson M, Dalton L,
    Nilson E, Wang D (2011). "West Nile virus infection in killer whale,
    Texas, USA, 2007"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3381582>. /Emerging
    Infect. Dis/. *17* (8): 1531–3. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1708.101979
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1708.101979>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3381582
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3381582> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21801643
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21801643>. 
21. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-21>* Hogan, C. Michael (2008). Barbary
    Macaque: Macaca sylvanus, GlobalTwitcher.com
    <http://globaltwitcher.auderis.se/artspec_information.asp?thingid=31757>
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20090831095518/http://globaltwitcher.auderis.se/artspec_information.asp?thingid=31757>
    2009-08-31 at the Wayback Machine
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>.
22. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-RijksCito2016_22-0>* Rijks, J.M.; Cito, F.;
    Cunningham, A.A.; Rantsios, A.T.; Giovannini, A. (2016). "Disease
    Risk Assessments Involving Companion Animals: an Overview for 15
    Selected Pathogens Taking a European Perspective". /Journal of
    Comparative Pathology/. *155* (1): S75–S97. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/j.jcpa.2015.08.003
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.jcpa.2015.08.003>. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Serial_Number> 0021-9975
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0021-9975>. 
23. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-23>* Hayes EB, Komar N, Nasci RS, Montgomery
    SP, O'Leary DR, Campbell GL (2005). "Epidemiology and transmission
    dynamics of West Nile virus disease"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/EID/vol11no08/05-0289a.htm>. /Emerging
    Infect. Dis/. *11* (8): 1167–73. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1108.050289a
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1108.050289a>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3320478
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3320478> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16102302
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16102302>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20110729130816/http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/EID/vol11no08/05-0289a.htm>
    from the original on 2011-07-29. 
24. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Kilpatrick_2011_24-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Kilpatrick_2011_24-1> Kilpatrick, A.M. (2011).
    "Globalization, land use, and the invasion of West Nile virus"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3346291>. /Science/.
    *334* (6054): 323–327. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1126/science.1201010
    <https://doi.org/10.1126%2Fscience.1201010>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3346291
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3346291> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 22021850
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22021850>. 
25. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Kilpatrick_2006A_25-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Kilpatrick_2006A_25-1> Kilpatrick, AM, P Daszak, MJ
    Jones, PP Marra, LD Kramer (2006). "Host heterogeneity dominates
    West Nile virus transmission"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1636093>. /Proceedings
    of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences/. *273* (1599):
    2327–2333. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1098/rspb.2006.3575
    <https://doi.org/10.1098%2Frspb.2006.3575>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 1636093
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1636093> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16928635
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16928635>. CS1 maint: Multiple
    names: authors list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Multiple_names:_authors_list>)
26. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Kilpatrick_2007_26-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Kilpatrick_2007_26-1> Kilpatrick, AM, SL LaDeau, PP Marra
    (2007). "Ecology of West Nile virus transmission and its impact on
    birds in the western hemisphere". /Auk/. *124* (4): 1121–1136. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1642/0004-8038(2007)124[1121:eownvt]2.0.co;2
    <https://doi.org/10.1642%2F0004-8038%282007%29124%5B1121%3Aeownvt%5D2.0.co%3B2>. CS1
    maint: Multiple names: authors list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Multiple_names:_authors_list>)
27. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Komar_2003_27-0>* Komar, N, S Langevin, S
    Hinten, N Nemeth, E Edwards, D Hettler, B Davis, R Bowen, M Bunning
    (2003). "Experimental infection of North American birds with the New
    York 1999 strain of West Nile virus"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2958552>. /Emerging
    Infectious Diseases/. *9* (3): 311–322. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid0903.020628
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid0903.020628>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2958552
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2958552> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12643825
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12643825>. CS1 maint: Multiple
    names: authors list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Multiple_names:_authors_list>)
28. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-28>* Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention (CDC) (2002). "Laboratory-acquired West Nile virus
    infections—United States, 2002". /MMWR Morb. Mortal. Wkly. Rep/.
    *51* (50): 1133–5. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12537288
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12537288>. 
29. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-29>* Fonseca K, Prince GD, Bratvold J, et al.
    (2005). "West Nile virus infection and conjunctive exposure"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3366727>. /Emerging
    Infect. Dis/. *11* (10): 1648–9. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1110.040212
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1110.040212>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3366727
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3366727> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16355512
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16355512>. 
30. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-30>* Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention (CDC) (2002). "Investigation of blood transfusion
    recipients with West Nile virus infections". /MMWR Morb. Mortal.
    Wkly. Rep/. *51* (36): 823. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12269472
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12269472>. 
31. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-31>* Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention (CDC) (2002). "West Nile virus infection in organ donor
    and transplant recipients—Georgia and Florida, 2002". /MMWR Morb.
    Mortal. Wkly. Rep/. *51* (35): 790. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12227442
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12227442>. 
32. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-32>* Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention (CDC) (2002). "Intrauterine West Nile virus infection—New
    York, 2002". /MMWR Morb. Mortal. Wkly. Rep/. *51* (50): 1135–6. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12537289
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12537289>. 
33. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-33>* Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention (CDC) (2002). "Possible West Nile virus transmission to
    an infant through breast-feeding—Michigan, 2002". /MMWR Morb.
    Mortal. Wkly. Rep/. *51* (39): 877–8. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12375687
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12375687>. 
34. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-34>* Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention (CDC) (2003). "Detection of West Nile virus in blood
    donations—United States, 2003"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm5232a3.htm>. /MMWR
    Morb. Mortal. Wkly. Rep/. *52* (32): 769–72. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12917583
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12917583>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170625121109/https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm5232a3.htm>
    from the original on 2017-06-25. 
35. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-35>* West Nile Virus
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20080820072151/http://www.scotblood.co.uk/westNile.asp>.
    Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service.
36. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Mayo_Clinic_36-0>* "West Nile virus"
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>.
    /Mayo Clinic/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20171026001453/https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>
    from the original on 26 October 2017. Retrieved 25 October 2017. 
37. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-pmid18000543_37-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-pmid18000543_37-1> Schneider BS, McGee CE, Jordan JM,
    Stevenson HL, Soong L, Higgs S (2007). Baylis, Matthew, ed. "Prior
    exposure to uninfected mosquitoes enhances mortality in
    naturally-transmitted West Nile virus infection"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2048662>. /PLoS ONE/.
    *2* (11): e1171. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1371/journal.pone.0001171
    <https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0001171>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2048662
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2048662> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 18000543
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18000543>. CS1 maint: Multiple
    names: authors list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Multiple_names:_authors_list>)
38. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-pmid16896145_38-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-pmid16896145_38-1> Styer LM, Bernard KA, Kramer LD
    (2006). "Enhanced early West Nile virus infection in young chickens
    infected by mosquito bite: effect of viral dose". /Am. J. Trop. Med.
    Hyg/. *75* (2): 337–45. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16896145
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16896145>. 
39. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-pmid16553552_39-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-pmid16553552_39-1> Schneider BS, Soong L, Girard YA,
    Campbell G, Mason P, Higgs S (2006). "Potentiation of West Nile
    encephalitis by mosquito feeding". /Viral Immunol/. *19* (1): 74–82.
    doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1089/vim.2006.19.74
    <https://doi.org/10.1089%2Fvim.2006.19.74>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16553552
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16553552>. 
40. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid15541033_40-0>* Wasserman HA, Singh S,
    Champagne DE (2004). "Saliva of the Yellow Fever mosquito, /Aedes
    aegypti/, modulates murine lymphocyte function". /Parasite Immunol/.
    *26* (6–7): 295–306. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1111/j.0141-9838.2004.00712.x
    <https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.0141-9838.2004.00712.x>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15541033
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15541033>. 
41. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid12693849_41-0>* Limesand KH, Higgs S,
    Pearson LD, Beaty BJ (2003). "Effect of mosquito salivary gland
    treatment on vesicular stomatitis New Jersey virus replication and
    interferon alpha/beta expression in vitro". /J. Med. Entomol/. *40*
    (2): 199–205. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1603/0022-2585-40.2.199
    <https://doi.org/10.1603%2F0022-2585-40.2.199>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 12693849
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12693849>. 
42. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid15189245_42-0>* Wanasen N, Nussenzveig RH,
    Champagne DE, Soong L, Higgs S (2004). "Differential modulation of
    murine host immune response by salivary gland extracts from the
    mosquitoes /Aedes aegypti/ and /Culex quinquefasciatus/". /Med. Vet.
    Entomol/. *18* (2): 191–9. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1111/j.1365-2915.2004.00498.x
    <https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1365-2915.2004.00498.x>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15189245
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15189245>. 
43. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid10081770_43-0>* Zeidner NS, Higgs S, Happ
    CM, Beaty BJ, Miller BR (1999). "Mosquito feeding modulates Th1 and
    Th2 cytokines in flavivirus susceptible mice: an effect mimicked by
    injection of sialokinins, but not demonstrated in flavivirus
    resistant mice". /Parasite Immunol/. *21* (1): 35–44. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1046/j.1365-3024.1999.00199.x
    <https://doi.org/10.1046%2Fj.1365-3024.1999.00199.x>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 10081770
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10081770>. 
44. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid15671753_44-0>* Schneider BS, Soong L,
    Zeidner NS, Higgs S (2004). "/Aedes aegypti/ salivary gland extracts
    modulate anti-viral and TH1/TH2 cytokine responses to sindbis virus
    infection". /Viral Immunol/. *17* (4): 565–73. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1089/vim.2004.17.565
    <https://doi.org/10.1089%2Fvim.2004.17.565>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15671753
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15671753>. 
45. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-45>* Bugbee, LM; Forte LR (September 2004).
    "The discovery of West Nile virus in overwintering /Culex pipiens/
    (Diptera: Culicidae) mosquitoes in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania".
    /Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association/. *20* (3):
    326–7. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15532939
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15532939>. 
46. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-46>* Goddard LB, Roth AE, Reisen WK, Scott TW
    (November 2003). "Vertical transmission of West Nile Virus by three
    California Culex (Diptera: Culicidae) species". /J. Med. Entomol/.
    *40* (6): 743–6. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1603/0022-2585-40.6.743
    <https://doi.org/10.1603%2F0022-2585-40.6.743>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 14765647
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14765647>. 
47. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-47>* Kumar D, Drebot MA, Wong SJ, et al.
    (2004). "A seroprevalence study of West Nile virus infection in
    solid organ transplant recipients". /Am. J. Transplant/. *4* (11):
    1883–8. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00592.x
    <https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1600-6143.2004.00592.x>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15476490
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15476490>. 
48. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-48>* Jean CM, Honarmand S, Louie JK, Glaser CA
    (December 2007). "Risk factors for West Nile virus neuroinvasive
    disease, California, 2005"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2876738>. /Emerging
    Infect. Dis/. *13* (12): 1918–20. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1312.061265
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1312.061265>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2876738
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2876738> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 18258047
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18258047>. 
49. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-49>* Kumar D, Drebot MA, Wong SJ, et al.
    (2004). "A seroprevalence study of west nile virus infection in
    solid organ transplant recipients". /Am. J. Transplant/. *4* (11):
    1883–8. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1111/j.1600-6143.2004.00592.x
    <https://doi.org/10.1111%2Fj.1600-6143.2004.00592.x>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15476490
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15476490>. 
50. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-50>* Glass, WG; Lim JK; Cholera R; Pletnev AG;
    Gao JL; Murphy PM (October 17, 2005). "Chemokine receptor CCR5
    promotes leukocyte trafficking to the brain and survival in West
    Nile virus infection"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2213214>. /Journal of
    Experimental Medicine/. *202* (8): 1087–98. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1084/jem.20042530
    <https://doi.org/10.1084%2Fjem.20042530>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2213214
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2213214> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16230476
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16230476>. 
51. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-51>* Glass, WG; McDermott DH; Lim JK; Lekhong
    S; Yu SF; Frank WA; Pape J; Cheshier RC; Murphy PM (January 23,
    2006). "CCR5 deficiency increases risk of symptomatic West Nile
    virus infection"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2118086>. /Journal of
    Experimental Medicine/. *203* (1): 35–40. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1084/jem.20051970
    <https://doi.org/10.1084%2Fjem.20051970>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2118086
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2118086> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16418398
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16418398>. 
52. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-52>* Tyler KL, Pape J, Goody RJ, Corkill M,
    Kleinschmidt-DeMasters BK (February 2006). "CSF findings in 250
    patients with serologically confirmed West Nile virus meningitis and
    encephalitis". /Neurology/. *66* (3): 361–5. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1212/01.wnl.0000195890.70898.1f
    <https://doi.org/10.1212%2F01.wnl.0000195890.70898.1f>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16382032
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16382032>. 
53. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-53>* "2012 DOHMH Advisory #8: West Nile Virus"
    <http://www.nyc.gov/html/doh/downloads/pdf/cd/2012/12md08.pdf>
    (PDF). New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. June
    28, 2012. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20131203000040/http://www.nyc.gov/html/doh/downloads/pdf/cd/2012/12md08.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on December 3, 2013. 
54. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-54>* Papa A, Karabaxoglou D, Kansouzidou A
    (October 2011). "Acute West Nile virus neuroinvasive infections:
    cross-reactivity with dengue virus and tick-borne encephalitis
    virus". /J. Med. Virol/. *83* (10): 1861–5. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1002/jmv.22180
    <https://doi.org/10.1002%2Fjmv.22180>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21837806
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21837806>. 
55. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-55>* American Academy of Pediatrics (8 August
    2012). "Choosing an Insect Repellent for Your Child"
    <https://www.healthychildren.org/English/safety-prevention/at-play/Pages/Insect-Repellents.aspx>.
    /healthychildren.org/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160827225733/https://www.healthychildren.org/English/safety-prevention/at-play/Pages/Insect-Repellents.aspx>
    from the original on 27 August 2016. Retrieved 24 August 2016. 
56. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-A_albopictus_56-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-A_albopictus_56-1> Rios L, Maruniak JE (October 2011).
    "Asian Tiger Mosquito, /Aedes albopictus/ (Skuse) (Insecta: Diptera:
    Culicidae)" <http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/in594>. Department of
    Entomology and Nematology, University of Florida. EENY-319. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20120926113428/http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/in594>
    from the original on 2012-09-26. 
57. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-57>* Jozan, M; Evans R; McLean R; Hall R;
    Tangredi B; Reed L; Scott J (Fall 2003). "Detection of West Nile
    virus infection in birds in the United States by blocking ELISA and
    immunohistochemistry". /Vector-Borne and Zoonotic Diseases/. *3*
    (3): 99–110. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1089/153036603768395799
    <https://doi.org/10.1089%2F153036603768395799>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 14511579
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14511579>. 
58. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-58>* Hall, RA; Broom AK; Hartnett AC; Howard
    MJ; Mackenzie JS (February 1995). "Immunodominant epitopes on the
    NS1 protein of MVE and KUN viruses serve as targets for a blocking
    ELISA to detect virus-specific antibodies in sentinel animal serum".
    /Journal of Virological Methods/. *51* (2–3): 201–10. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1016/0166-0934(94)00105-P
    <https://doi.org/10.1016%2F0166-0934%2894%2900105-P>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 7738140
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7738140>. 
59. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-59>* California Department of Public Health
    Tutorial for Local Agencies to Safely Collect Dead Birds Oral Swab
    Samples on RNAse Cards for West Nile Virus Testing
    <http://www.westnile.ca.gov/downloads.php?download_id=2949&filename=RNAse_tutorial.pdf>
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20140709075706/http://westnile.ca.gov/downloads.php?download_id=2949&filename=RNAse_tutorial.pdf>
    2014-07-09 at the Wayback Machine
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>.
60. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-60>* RNA virus preserving filter paper card
    <http://www.fortiusbio.com/RNA_Sampling_Card.html> Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20160110095447/http://fortiusbio.com/RNA_Sampling_Card.html>
    2016-01-10 at the Wayback Machine
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>.. fortiusbio.com
61. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-61>* "Mosquito Monitoring and Management"
    <http://www.nps.gov/fiis/parkmgmt/mosquito-management.htm>. National
    Park Service. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20130415112435/http://www.nps.gov/fiis/parkmgmt/mosquito-management.htm>
    from the original on 2013-04-15. 
62. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-62>* Oklahoma State University
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oklahoma_State_University>:
    Mosquitoes and West Nile virus
63. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-63>* Benedict MQ, Levine RS, Hawley WA,
    Lounibos LP (2007). "Spread of the tiger: global risk of invasion by
    the mosquito /Aedes albopictus/"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2212601>.
    /Vector-Borne and Zoonotic Diseases/. *7* (1): 76–85. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1089/vbz.2006.0562
    <https://doi.org/10.1089%2Fvbz.2006.0562>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 2212601
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2212601> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 17417960
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17417960>. 
64. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-64>* Watson JT, Pertel PE, Jones RC, et al.
    (September 2004). "Clinical characteristics and functional outcomes
    of West Nile Fever"
    <http://www.annals.org/article.aspx?volume=141&page=360>. /Ann.
    Intern. Med/. *141* (5): 360–5. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.7326/0003-4819-141-5-200409070-00010
    <https://doi.org/10.7326%2F0003-4819-141-5-200409070-00010>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15353427
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15353427>. 
65. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-65>* Klee AL, Maidin B, Edwin B, et al. (Aug
    2004). "Long-term prognosis for clinical West Nile virus infection"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3320418>. /Emerg
    Infect Dis/. *10* (8): 1405–11. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1008.030879
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1008.030879>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3320418
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3320418> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15496241
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15496241>. 
66. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-66>* Nolan MS, Podoll AS, Hause AM, Akers KM,
    Finkel KW, Murray KO (2012). Wang, Tian, ed. "Prevalence of chronic
    kidney disease and progression of disease over time among patients
    enrolled in the Houston West Nile virus cohort"
    <http://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0040374>. /PLoS ONE/. *7*
    (7): e40374. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1371/journal.pone.0040374
    <https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0040374>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3391259
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3391259> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 22792293
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22792293>. CS1 maint: Multiple
    names: authors list (link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Multiple_names:_authors_list>)
67. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-67>* "New Study Reveals: West Nile virus is
    far more menacing & harms far more people"
    <http://guardianlv.com/2012/08/new-study-reveals-west-nile-virus-is-far-more-menacing-harms-far-more-people/>.
    /The Guardian Express/. The Guardian Express. 26 August 2012.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20121006012354/http://guardianlv.com/2012/08/new-study-reveals-west-nile-virus-is-far-more-menacing-harms-far-more-people/>
    from the original on 6 October 2012. Retrieved 26 August 2012. 
68. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-68>* Smithburn KC, Hughes TP, Burke AW, Paul
    JH (June 1940). "A Neurotropic Virus Isolated from the Blood of a
    Native of Uganda". /Am. J. Trop. Med/. *20* (1): 471–92. 
69. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-69>* Work TH, Hurlbut HS, Taylor RM (1953).
    "Isolation of West Nile virus from hooded crow and rock pigeon in
    the Nile delta". /Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med/. *84* (3): 719–22. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3181/00379727-84-20764
    <https://doi.org/10.3181%2F00379727-84-20764>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 13134268
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/13134268>. 
70. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-70>* Bernkopf H, Levine S, Nerson R (1953).
    "Isolation of West Nile virus in Israel". /J. Infect. Dis/. *93*
    (3): 207–18. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1093/infdis/93.3.207
    <https://doi.org/10.1093%2Finfdis%2F93.3.207>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 13109233
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/13109233>. 
71. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Nash01_71-0>* Nash D, Mostashari F, Fine A, et
    al. (June 2001). "The outbreak of West Nile virus infection in the
    New York City area in 1999". /N. Engl. J. Med/. *344* (24): 1807–14.
    doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1056/NEJM200106143442401
    <https://doi.org/10.1056%2FNEJM200106143442401>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 11407341
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11407341>. 
72. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-72>* Calisher CH (2000). "West Nile virus in
    the New World: appearance, persistence, and adaptation to a new
    econiche—an opportunity taken". /Viral Immunol/. *13* (4): 411–4.
    doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1089/vim.2000.13.411
    <https://doi.org/10.1089%2Fvim.2000.13.411>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 11192287
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11192287>. 
73. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-73>* "West Nile virus"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/westnile/>. NIOSH. August 27,
    2012. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20170729073111/https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/westnile/>
    from the original on July 29, 2017. 
74. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-pmid24210089_74-0>* Murray KO, Ruktanonchai D,
    Hesalroad D, Fonken E, Nolan MS (November 2013). "West Nile virus,
    Texas, USA, 2012" <https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1911.130768>.
    /Emerging Infectious Diseases/. *19* (11): 1836–8. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1911.130768
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1911.130768>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3837649
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3837649> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 24210089
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24210089>. Retrieved 2014-12-08. 
75. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-75>* Fox, M. (May 13, 2013). "2012 was
    deadliest year for West Nile in US, CDC says"
    <http://vitals.nbcnews.com/_news/2013/05/13/18232095-2012-was-deadliest-year-for-west-nile-in-us-cdc-says>.
    /NBC News/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20130608042431/http://vitals.nbcnews.com/_news/2013/05/13/18232095-2012-was-deadliest-year-for-west-nile-in-us-cdc-says>
    from the original on June 8, 2013. Retrieved May 13, 2013. 
76. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-76>* "Vertebrate Ecology"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/westnile/birds&mammals.htm>. /West
    Nile Virus/. Division of Vector-Borne Diseases, CDC. 30 April 2009.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20130301003126/http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/westnile/birds%26mammals.htm>
    from the original on 1 March 2013. 
77. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-77>* Deas, Tia S; Bennett CJ; Jones SA;
    Tilgner M; Ren P; Behr MJ; Stein DA; Iversen PL; Kramer LD; Bernard
    KA; Shi PY (May 2007). "In vitro resistance selection and in vivo
    efficacy of morpholino oligomers against West Nile virus"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1913242>. /Antimicrob
    Agents Chemother/. *51* (7): 2470–82. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1128/AAC.00069-07
    <https://doi.org/10.1128%2FAAC.00069-07>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 1913242
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1913242> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 17485503
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17485503>. 
78. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-78>* Hayes EB, Sejvar JJ, Zaki SR, Lanciotti
    RS, Bode AV, Campbell GL (2005). "Virology, pathology, and clinical
    manifestations of West Nile virus disease"
    <https://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/EID/vol11no08/05-0289b.htm>. /Emerging
    Infect. Dis/. *11* (8): 1174–9. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.3201/eid1108.050289b
    <https://doi.org/10.3201%2Feid1108.050289b>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3320472
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3320472> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 16102303
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16102303>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20110804023633/http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/EID/vol11no08/05-0289b.htm>
    from the original on 2011-08-04. 
79. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-79>* Moskowitz DW, Johnson FE (2004). "The
    central role of angiotensin I-converting enzyme in vertebrate
    pathophysiology". /Curr Top Med Chem/. *4* (13): 1433–54. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.2174/1568026043387818
    <https://doi.org/10.2174%2F1568026043387818>. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15379656
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15379656>. 
80. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-80>* Arroyo, J.; Miller, C.; Catalan, J.;
    Myers, G. A.; Ratterree, M. S.; Trent, D. W.; Monath, T. P. (2004).
    "ChimeriVax-West Nile Virus Live-Attenuated Vaccine: Preclinical
    Evaluation of Safety, Immunogenicity, and Efficacy"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC525070>. /Journal of
    Virology/. *78* (22): 12497–12507. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1128/JVI.78.22.12497-12507.2004
    <https://doi.org/10.1128%2FJVI.78.22.12497-12507.2004>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 525070
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC525070> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 15507637
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15507637>. 
81. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-81>* Biedenbender, R.; Bevilacqua, J.; Gregg,
    A. M.; Watson, M.; Dayan, G. (2011). "Phase II, Randomized,
    Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Multicenter Study to Investigate
    the Immunogenicity and Safety of a West Nile Virus Vaccine in
    Healthy Adults"
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3086439>. /Journal of
    Infectious Diseases/. *203* (1): 75–84. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1093/infdis/jiq003
    <https://doi.org/10.1093%2Finfdis%2Fjiq003>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3086439
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3086439> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 21148499
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21148499>. 


    External links[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit&section=16>]

Classification 	
V <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Medical_resources> · T
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Medical_resources> · D
<https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q158856>

  * *ICD
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Statistical_Classification_of_Diseases_and_Related_Health_Problems>-10
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ICD-10>*: A92.3
    <http://apps.who.int/classifications/icd10/browse/2016/en#/A92.3>
  * *ICD
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Statistical_Classification_of_Diseases_and_Related_Health_Problems>-9-CM
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ICD-9_codes>*: 066.4
    <http://www.icd9data.com/getICD9Code.ashx?icd9=066.4>
  * *MeSH <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_Subject_Headings>*:
    D014901
    <https://www.nlm.nih.gov/cgi/mesh/2015/MB_cgi?field=uid&term=D014901>
  * *DiseasesDB <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diseases_Database>*:
    30025 <http://www.diseasesdatabase.com/ddb30025.htm>

External resources 	

  * *MedlinePlus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MedlinePlus>*: 007186
    <https://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/007186.htm>
  * *Patient UK <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patient_UK>*: West Nile
    fever <https://patient.info/doctor/West-Nile-Virus>


  * iconMedicine portal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Medicine>
  * icon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Sida-aids.png>Viruses
    portal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Viruses>

	Wikimedia Commons has media related to /*West Nile virus
<https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus>*/.

  * De Filette M, Ulbert S, Diamond M, Sanders NN (2012). "Recent
    progress in West Nile virus diagnosis and vaccination"
    <http://www.veterinaryresearch.org/content/43/1/16>. /Vet. Res/.
    *43* (1): 16. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1186/1297-9716-43-16
    <https://doi.org/10.1186%2F1297-9716-43-16>. PMC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Central> 3311072
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3311072> Freely
    accessible. PMID
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PubMed_Identifier> 22380523
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22380523>. 
  * "West Nile Virus" <https://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/westnile/>.
    Division of Vector-Borne Diseases, U.S. Centers for Disease Control
    and Prevention
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centers_for_Disease_Control_and_Prevention>
    (CDC). 
  * CDC—West Nile Virus—NIOSH Workplace Safety and Health Topic
    <https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/westnile/>
  * West Nile Virus Resource Guide <http://npic.orst.edu/wnv/>—National
    Pesticide Information Center
  * Vaccine Research Center (VRC) <http://www.vrc.nih.gov/>—Information
    concerning WNV vaccine research studies
  * Virus Pathogen Database and Analysis Resource (ViPR): Flaviviridae
    <http://www.viprbrc.org/brc/home.do?decorator=flavi>
  * Species Profile- West Nile Virus (/Flavivirus/)
    <http://www.invasivespeciesinfo.gov/microbes/westnile.shtml>,
    National Invasive Species Information Center, United States National
    Agricultural Library
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_National_Agricultural_Library>.
    Lists general information and resources for West Nile Virus.
  * West Nile Virus
    <http://rad.usuhs.edu/medpix/parent.php3?mode=TFcase_thumbnails&case_prog=/medpix/cow_image.html&pt_id=14187&topic_id=4124&imageid=58164&quiz=no#top>—West
    Nile Encephalitis Brain Scans

Taxon identifiers
<https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:WikiProject_Taxonomy> 	

  * Wd <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikidata>: Q158856
    <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q158856>
  * EoL <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encyclopedia_of_Life>: 541196
    <http://eol.org/pages/541196>
  * ICTV
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Committee_on_Taxonomy_of_Viruses>: 00.026.0.01.051.
    <http://ictvdb.bio-mirror.cn/ICTVdB/00.026.0.01.051.htm>
  * NCBI
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Center_for_Biotechnology_Information>: 11082
    <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/Browser/wwwtax.cgi?mode=Info&id=11082>

[show <#>]

  * v <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Zoonotic_viral_diseases>
  * t <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Zoonotic_viral_diseases>
  * e
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Zoonotic_viral_diseases&action=edit>

Zoonotic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoonosis> viral diseases
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_disease> (A80–B34
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A80%E2%80%93B34>, 042–079
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/042%E2%80%93079>)
Arthropod-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthropod> 	
Mosquito-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosquito-borne_disease> 	
/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: La Crosse
    encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Crosse_encephalitis>
      o LACV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Crosse_virus>
  * Batai virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Batai_virus> (BATV)
  * Bwamba Fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bwamba_Fever> (BWAV)
  * California encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California_encephalitis>
      o CEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California_encephalitis_virus>
  * Jamestown Canyon virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jamestown_Canyon_virus>
  * Tete virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tete_virus>
  * Tahyna virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tahyna_virus> (TAHV)

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Rift Valley
    fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rift_Valley_fever>
      o RVFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rift_Valley_Fever_virus>
  * Bunyamwera fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyamwera_virus> (BUNV)
  * Ngari virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ngari_virus&action=edit&redlink=1>
    (NRIV)

/Flaviviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flaviviridae>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: Japanese
    encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_encephalitis>
      o JEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_encephalitis_virus>
  * Australian encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murray_Valley_encephalitis_virus>
      o MVEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murray_Valley_encephalitis_virus>
      o KUNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kunjin_virus>
  * Saint Louis encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Louis_encephalitis>
      o SLEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Louis_encephalitis_virus>
  * Usutu virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usutu_virus>
  * West Nile fever
      o WNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus>

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Dengue
    fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dengue_fever>
      o DENV-1-4 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dengue_virus>
  * Yellow fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_fever>
      o YFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_fever_virus>
  * Zika fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zika_fever>
      o Zika virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zika_virus>

/Togaviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Togaviridae>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: Eastern
    equine encephalomyelitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_equine_encephalomyelitis>
      o EEEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_equine_encephalitis_virus>
  * Western equine encephalomyelitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_equine_encephalomyelitis>
      o WEEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_equine_encephalitis_virus>
  * Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuelan_equine_encephalomyelitis>
      o VEEV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuelan_equine_encephalitis_virus>
  * Chikungunya <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chikungunya>
      o CHIKV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chikungunya_virus>
  * O'Nyong-nyong fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O%27Nyong-nyong_fever>
      o ONNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O%27nyong%27nyong_virus>
  * Ross River fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ross_River_fever>
      o RRV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ross_River_virus>
  * Semliki Forest virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semliki_Forest_virus>
  * Sindbis fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sindbis_virus>

/Reoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reoviridae>/ 	

  * Banna virus encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banna_virus>

Tick-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick-borne_disease#Viruses> 	
/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>:
    Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crimean%E2%80%93Congo_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o CCHFV
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crimean%E2%80%93Congo_hemorrhagic_fever_virus>
  * Heartland virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heartland_virus>
  * Bhanja virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhanja_virus>
  * Sandfly fever Naples virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandfly_fever_Naples_virus>
  * Lone Star virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lone_Star_virus>
  * Tete virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tete_virus>

/Flaviviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flaviviridae>/ 	

  * Arbovirus encephalitides
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbovirus_encephalitis>: Tick-borne
    encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick-borne_encephalitis>
      o TBEV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick-borne_encephalitis_virus>
  * Powassan encephalitis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Powassan_encephalitis>
      o POWV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Powassan_virus>

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Omsk
    hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omsk_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o OHFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omsk_hemorrhagic_fever_virus>
  * Kyasanur forest disease
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyasanur_forest_disease>
      o KFDV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyasanur_forest_disease_virus>
      o AHFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alkhurma_virus>
  * Langat virus (LGTV) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Langat_virus>

/Reoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reoviridae>/ 	

  * Colorado tick fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colorado_tick_fever>
      o CTFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colorado_tick_fever_virus>
  * Kemerovo tickborne viral fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kemerovo_tickborne_viral_fever>

Sandfly-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandfly#Viruses> 	
/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Adria virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adria_virus> (ADRV)
  * Pappataci fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pappataci_fever>
      o Toscana virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toscana_virus>
  * Sandfly fever Naples virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandfly_fever_Naples_virus>
  * Oropouche fever <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oropouche_fever>
      o Oropouche virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oropouche_virus>
  * SFTS virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SFTS_virus>

/Rhabdoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdoviridae>/ 	

  * Chandipura virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chandipura_virus>

Mammal-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mammal> 	
Rodent-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rodent> 	
/Arenaviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arenavirus>/ 	

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Lassa fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lassa_fever>
      o LASV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lassa_virus>
  * Venezuelan hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuelan_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o GTOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guanarito_virus>
  * Argentine hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argentine_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o JUNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Junin_virus>
  * Brazilian hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brazilian_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o SABV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brazilian_hemorrhagic_fever>
  * Bolivian hemorrhagic fever
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolivian_hemorrhagic_fever>
      o MACV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machupo_virus>
  * LUJV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lujo_virus>
  * CHPV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chapare_virus>

/Bunyavirales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunyavirales>/ 	

  * Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hantavirus_hemorrhagic_fever_with_renal_syndrome>

      o DOBV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dobrava-Belgrade_virus>
      o HTNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hantaan_River_virus>
      o PUUV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puumala_virus>
      o SEOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_virus>
      o AMRV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amur_virus>

  * Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hantavirus>
      o ANDV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andes_virus>
      o SNV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sin_Nombre_virus>

Bat-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bat#Disease_transmission> 	
/Filoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filoviridae>/ 	

  * Viral hemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_hemorrhagic_fever>: Ebola virus
    disease <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus_disease>
  * BDBV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundibugyo_virus>
  * EBOV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola_virus>
  * SUDV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudan_virus>
  * TAFV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta%C3%AF_Forest_virus>
  * Marburg virus disease
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus_disease>
  * MARV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus>
  * RAVV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ravn_virus>

/Rhabdoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdoviridae>/ 	

  * Rabies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabies>
      o ABLV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_bat_lyssavirus>
      o MOKV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mokola_virus>
      o DUVV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duvenhage_virus>
      o LBV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagos_bat_virus>
  * CHPV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chandipura_virus>

/Paramyxoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paramyxoviridae>/ 	

  * Henipavirus encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henipavirus>
      o HeV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hendra_virus>
      o NiV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nipah_virus>

/Primate-borne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primate>/ 	
/Herpesviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herpesviridae>/ 	

  * Herpes B virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herpes_B_virus>

/Retroviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retroviridae>/ 	

  * Simian foamy virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simian_foamy_virus>
  * HTLV-1 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_T-lymphotropic_virus_1>
  * HTLV-2 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_T-lymphotropic_virus_2>

/Poxviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poxviridae>/ 	

  * Tanapox <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanapox>
  * Yaba monkey tumor virus
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yaba_monkey_tumor_virus>

Multiple vectors 	
/Rhabdoviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdoviridae>/ 	

  * Rabies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabies>
      o RABV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabies_virus>
  * Mokola virus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mokola_virus>

/Poxviridae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poxviridae>/ 	

  * Monkeypox <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkeypox>

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&oldid=814828061"

Categories <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Category>:

  * Horse diseases <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Horse_diseases>
  * Bird diseases <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Bird_diseases>
  * Flaviviruses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Flaviviruses>
  * Arthropod-borne viral fevers and viral haemorrhagic fevers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Arthropod-borne_viral_fevers_and_viral_haemorrhagic_fevers>
  * Zoonoses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Zoonoses>
  * Tropical diseases
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Tropical_diseases>
  * Insect-borne diseases
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Insect-borne_diseases>
  * Animal vaccines <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Animal_vaccines>
  * Encephalitis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Encephalitis>
  * Animal viral diseases
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Animal_viral_diseases>

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:CS1_maint:_Multiple_names:_authors_list>
  * Webarchive template wayback links
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Webarchive_template_wayback_links>
  * Infobox medical condition (new)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Infobox_medical_condition_(new)>
  * Articles with 'species' microformats
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_with_%27species%27_microformats>
  * Wikipedia articles in need of updating from June 2016
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_articles_in_need_of_updating_from_June_2016>
  * All Wikipedia articles in need of updating
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:All_Wikipedia_articles_in_need_of_updating>
  * RTT <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:RTT>


    Navigation menu


Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk>
  * Contributions <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions>
  * Create account
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=West+Nile+fever>
  * Log in
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=West+Nile+fever>


Namespaces

  * Article

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_fever>
  * Talk

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:West_Nile_fever>


      Variants


Views

  * Read

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_fever>
  * Edit

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=edit>
  * View history

    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=history>


      More


      Search

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>


Navigation

  * Main page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>
  * Contents <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Contents>
  * Featured content <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Featured_content>
  * Current events <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current_events>
  * Random article <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Random>
  * Donate to Wikipedia
    <https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en>
  * Wikipedia store <https://shop.wikimedia.org/>


      Interaction

  * Help <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Contents>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Community portal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal>
  * Recent changes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges>
  * Contact page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>


      Tools

  * What links here
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/West_Nile_fever>
  * Related changes
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/West_Nile_fever>
  * Upload file <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard>
  * Special pages <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:SpecialPages>
  * Permanent link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&oldid=814828061>
  * Page information
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&action=info>
  * Wikidata item <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q158856>
  * Cite this page
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=West_Nile_fever&id=814828061>


      Print/export

  * Create a book
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Book&bookcmd=book_creator&referer=West+Nile+fever>
  * Download as PDF
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:ElectronPdf&page=West+Nile+fever&action=show-download-screen>
  * Printable version
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&printable=yes>


      In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
    <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:West_Nile_virus>
  * Wikispecies <https://species.wikimedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus>


      Languages

  * العربية
    <https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%81%D9%8A%D8%B1%D9%88%D8%B3_%D8%BA%D8%B1%D8%A8_%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D9%8A%D9%84>
  * Bân-lâm-gú
    <https://zh-min-nan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Se_N%C3%AE-l%C3%B4-h%C3%B4_p%C4%93%E2%81%BF-to%CC%8Dk>
  * Català <https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus_del_Nil_occidental>
  * Deutsch <https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/West-Nil-Virus>
  * Eesti <https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%A4%C3%A4ne-Niiluse_viirus>
  * Español <https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus_del_Nilo_Occidental>
  * Esperanto <https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okcidentnila_viruso>
  * فارسی
    <https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%D8%B1%D9%88%D8%B3_%D9%86%DB%8C%D9%84_%D8%BA%D8%B1%D8%A8%DB%8C>
  * Français <https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus_du_Nil_occidental>
  * Bahasa Indonesia <https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus_West_Nile>
  * Italiano <https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virus_del_Nilo_occidentale>
  * עברית
    <https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%A7%D7%93%D7%97%D7%AA_%D7%9E%D7%A2%D7%A8%D7%91_%D7%94%D7%A0%D7%99%D7%9C%D7%95%D7%A1>
  * Nederlands <https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Westnijlvirus>
  * 日本語
    <https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E3%82%A6%E3%82%A8%E3%82%B9%E3%83%88%E3%83%8A%E3%82%A4%E3%83%AB%E7%86%B1>
  * Norsk <https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vestnilfeber>
  * Polski <https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wirus_Zachodniego_Nilu>
  * Português <https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%ADrus_do_oeste_do_Nilo>
  * Română <https://ro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virusul_West_Nile>
  * Русский
    <https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D1%80%D1%83%D1%81_%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%85%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B8_%D0%97%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%B3%D0%BE_%D0%9D%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * Simple English <https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_virus>
  * Slovenčina
    <https://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z%C3%A1padon%C3%ADlsky_v%C3%ADrus>
  * Српски / srpski
    <https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D1%80%D1%83%D1%81_%D0%97%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%B3_%D0%9D%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B0>
  * Suomi <https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%A4nsi-Niilin_virus>
  * ไทย
    <https://th.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B9%84%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%AA%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%95%E0%B9%8C%E0%B9%84%E0%B8%99%E0%B8%A5%E0%B9%8C>
  * Türkçe <https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bat%C4%B1_Nil_vir%C3%BCs%C3%BC>
  * Walon
    <https://wa.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecefalite_do_N%C3%AEl_co%C3%BBtchantrece>
  * 中文
    <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E8%A5%BF%E5%B0%BC%E7%BE%85%E6%B2%B3%E7%97%85%E6%AF%92>

Edit links
<https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q158856#sitelinks-wikipedia>

  * This page was last edited on 11 December 2017, at 04:30.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
    License
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License><https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/>;
    additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the
    Terms of Use <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use> and
    Privacy Policy
    <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>. Wikipedia® is
    a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
    <https://www.wikimediafoundation.org/>, a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Disclaimers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer>
  * Contact Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>
  * Developers
    <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute>
  * Cookie statement <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Cookie_statement>
  * Mobile view
    <https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Nile_fever&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile>
  * Enable previews <#>

  * Wikimedia Foundation <https://wikimediafoundation.org/>	
  * Powered by MediaWiki <https://www.mediawiki.org/>	

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Nile_fever?action=edit>
