<https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>

This content does not have an English version.
Mayo Clinic <http://www.mayoclinic.org/>
Menu

<#!>

  * Patient Care & Health Info

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-care-and-health-information>
    Quality Care <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>

    Find out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care.
    Make an appointment. <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>.

      o Patient Care & Health Info
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-care-and-health-information>
      o Healthy Lifestyle <http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle>
      o Symptoms A-Z <http://www.mayoclinic.org/symptoms>
      o Diseases & Conditions A-Z
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions>
      o Tests & Procedures A-Z <http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures>
      o Drugs & Supplements A-Z
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/drugs-supplements>
      o Appointments <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>
      o Patient & Visitor Guide
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-visitor-guide>
      o Billing & Insurance
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-visitor-guide/billing-insurance>
      o Patient Online Services
        <https://gpsnetx.mayoclinic.org/psi/content/staticpatient/showpage/patientonline>
  * Departments & Centers

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/departments-centers>
    Meet the Staff <http://www.mayoclinic.org/departments-centers>

    Find a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic
    campuses. Visit now. <http://www.mayoclinic.org/departments-centers>.

      o Departments & Centers
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/departments-centers>
      o Doctors & Medical Staff
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments/find-a-doctor>
      o Medical Departments & Centers
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/departments-centers/index>
      o Research Centers & Programs
        <http://www.mayo.edu/research/centers-programs>
      o About Mayo Clinic <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-mayo-clinic>
      o Contact Us <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-mayo-clinic/contact>
  * Research

    <http://www.mayo.edu/research>
    Research and Clinical Trials <http://www.mayo.edu/research>

    See how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science
    of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now.
    <http://www.mayo.edu/research>.

      o Research <http://www.mayo.edu/research>
      o Explore Research Labs <http://www.mayo.edu/research/labs>
      o Find Clinical Trials <http://www.mayo.edu/research/clinical-trials>
      o Research Faculty <http://www.mayo.edu/research/faculty>
      o Postdoctoral Fellowships
        <http://www.mayo-clinic-jobs.com/go/Postdoctoral-Temporary-Research/343401/?utm_source=careersite&utm_campaign=PostDocResearch>
      o Discovery's Edge Magazine <http://discoverysedge.mayo.edu/>
      o Search Publications <http://www.mayo.edu/research/publications>
      o Training Grant Positions
        <http://www.mayo.edu/research/training-grant-positions>
  * Education

    <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-college-of-medicine-and-science>
    Visit Our Schools <http://www.mayo.edu/education/>

    Educators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver
    compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree.
    <http://www.mayo.edu/education/>.

      o Education
        <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-college-of-medicine-and-science>
      o Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science
        <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-college-of-medicine-and-science>
      o Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences
        <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-graduate-school-of-biomedical-sciences>
      o Mayo Clinic School of Medicine
        <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-school-of-medicine>
      o Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development
        <http://www.mayo.edu/cme/>
      o Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education
        <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-school-of-graduate-medical-education>
      o Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
        <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-school-of-health-sciences>
      o Alumni Center <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-alumni-center>
  * For Medical Professionals

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medical-professionals>
    Professional Services <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medicalprofs/>

    Explore Mayo Clinic’s many resources and see jobs available for
    medical professionals. Get updates.
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medicalprofs/>.

      o For Medical Professionals
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medical-professionals>
      o Provider Relations
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medical-professionals/provider-relations>
      o Online Services for Referring Physicians
        <https://medprof.mayoclinic.org/>
      o Video Center <http://medprofvideos.mayoclinic.org/>
      o Publications
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medical-professionals/publications>
      o Continuing Medical Education <http://www.mayo.edu/cme/>
      o Mayo Medical Laboratories <http://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/>
  * Products & Services

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/products-services>
      o Products & Services <http://www.mayoclinic.org/products-services>
      o Healthy Living Program
        <https://healthyliving.mayoclinic.org/?mc_id=global&utm_source=mayoclinicorgmainnav&utm_medium=l&utm_content=healthylivingprogram&utm_campaign=hlp&geo=national&placementsite=enterprise&cauid=100469>
      o Sports Medicine
        <https://sportsmedicine.mayoclinic.org/?mc_id=global&utm_source=mayoclinicorgmainnav&utm_medium=l&utm_content=sportsmedicine&utm_campaign=smc&geo=national&placementsite=enterprise&cauid=101655>
      o Books and more ...
        <https://marketplace.mayoclinic.com/?utm_source=MC-DotOrg-Nav&utm_medium=Link&utm_campaign=Marketplace-Home&utm_content=MKTPLC>
      o Mayo Clinic Health Letter <http://healthletter.mayoclinic.com/>
      o Medical Products
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-visitor-guide/minnesota/becoming-a-patient/shops-supplies/mayo-clinic-store>
      o Population Health and Wellness Programs
        <http://gbs.mayoclinic.org/solutions.php>
      o Medical Laboratory Services
        <http://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/>
      o Mayo Clinic Voice Apps <http://www.mayoclinic.org/voice/apps>
  * Giving to Mayo Clinic

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/giving-to-mayo-clinic>
    Give to Mayo Clinic <https://philanthropy.mayoclinic.org/donateMC>

    Help set a new world standard in care for people everywhere. Give
    now. <https://philanthropy.mayoclinic.org/donateMC>.

      o Giving to Mayo Clinic
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/giving-to-mayo-clinic>
      o Give Now <https://philanthropy.mayoclinic.org/donateMC>
      o Your Impact
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/giving-to-mayo-clinic/your-impact>
      o Frequently Asked Questions
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/giving-to-mayo-clinic/contact-us/frequently-asked-questions>
      o Contact Us to Give
        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/giving-to-mayo-clinic/contact-us>
  * Request an Appointment

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>
  * Find a Doctor

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments/find-a-doctor>
  * Find a Job

    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/jobs>
  * Give Now

    <https://philanthropy.mayoclinic.org/donateMC>

Search

  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/MayoClinic>
  * Facebook

    <http://www.facebook.com/MayoClinic>
  * Google

    <http://google.com/+MayoClinic>
  * YouTube

    <http://www.youtube.com/user/mayoclinic>
  * Pinterest

    <http://pinterest.com/mayoclinic/>

      o Request an Appointment <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>
      o Find a Doctor <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments/find-a-doctor>
      o Find a Job <http://www.mayoclinic.org/jobs>
      o Give Now <https://philanthropy.mayoclinic.org/donateMC>

  * Log in to Patient Account

    <https://gpsnetx.mayoclinic.org/psi/content/staticpatient/showpage/patientonline>

  * English
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>

      o Español

        <https://www.mayoclinic.org/es-es/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>
      o Português

        <http://www.mayoclinic.org/portugues>
      o العربية

        <http://arabic.mayoclinic.org/>
      o 中国语

        <http://mandarin.mayoclinic.org/>

Request an Appointment

<https://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>

  * Patient Care & Health Information

    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-care-and-health-information>
  * Diseases & Conditions

    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions>


  West Nile virus
  <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>

  * Sections

    <#!>
  * Symptoms & causes

    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>
  * Diagnosis & treatment

    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20350325>

Print
<https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320?p=1>


    Overview

A mosquito-transmitted virus causes most cases of West Nile infection.
Most people infected with West Nile virus either don't develop signs or
symptoms or have only minor ones, such as fever and mild headache.
However, some people develop a life-threatening illness that includes
inflammation of the spinal cord or brain.

Mild signs and symptoms of a West Nile virus infection generally go away
on their own. But severe signs and symptoms — such as a severe headache,
fever, disorientation or sudden weakness — require immediate attention.

Exposure to mosquitoes where West Nile virus exists increases your risk
of getting infected. Protect yourself from mosquitoes by using mosquito
repellent and wearing clothing that covers your skin to reduce your risk.


    Symptoms

Most people infected with the West Nile virus have no signs or symptoms.


      Mild infection signs and symptoms

About 20 percent of people develop a mild infection called West Nile
fever. Common signs and symptoms include:

  * Fever
  * Headache
  * Body aches
  * Vomiting
  * Diarrhea
  * Fatigue
  * Skin rash


      Serious infection signs and symptoms

In less than 1 percent of infected people, the virus causes a serious
neurological infection, including inflammation of the brain
(encephalitis) and of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal
cord (meningitis).

Signs and symptoms of neurological infections include:

  * High fever
  * Severe headache
  * Stiff neck
  * Disorientation or confusion
  * Stupor or coma
  * Tremors or muscle jerking
  * Seizures
  * Partial paralysis or muscle weakness

Signs and symptoms of West Nile fever usually last a few days, but signs
and symptoms of encephalitis or meningitis can linger for weeks or
months. Certain neurological effects, such as muscle weakness, can be
permanent.


      When to see a doctor

Mild symptoms of West Nile fever usually resolve on their own. For signs
or symptoms of serious infection, such as severe headaches, a stiff
neck, disorientation or confusion, seek medical attention right away. A
serious infection generally requires hospitalization.

Request an Appointment at Mayo Clinic
<https://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>


    Causes

  *
    West Nile virus transmission cycle
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/11/15/17/36/ds00226_-ds00438_im00836_r7_westnileviruscyclethu_jpg.jpg>


          West Nile virus transmission cycle


          West Nile virus transmission cycle

    When a mosquito bites an infected bird, the virus enters the
    mosquito's bloodstream and eventually moves into its salivary
    glands. When an infected mosquito bites an animal or a human (host),
    the virus is passed into the host's bloodstream, where it may cause
    serious illness.

Typically, West Nile virus spreads to humans and animals via infected
mosquitoes. Mosquitoes become infected when they feed on infected birds.
You can't get infected from casual contact with an infected person or
animal.

Most West Nile virus infections occur during warm weather, when
mosquitos are active. The incubation period — the period between when
you're bitten by an infected mosquito and the appearance of signs and
symptoms of the illness — ranges from two to 14 days.

West Nile virus has occurred in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle
East. It appeared in the United States in the summer of 1999, and since
then has been reported in every state except Hawaii and Alaska, as well
as in Canada.


      Other possible routes of transmission

In a few cases, West Nile virus might have spread through other routes,
including organ transplantation and blood transfusion. However, blood
donors are screened for the virus, substantially reducing the risk of
infection from blood transfusions.

There also have been reports of possible transmission of the virus from
mother to child during pregnancy or breast-feeding or exposure to the
virus in a lab, but these are rare and not conclusively confirmed.


    Risk factors

Most cases of West Nile virus in the United States occur June through
September. Cases have been reported in all 48 lower states.


      Risk of serious infection

Even if you're infected, your risk of developing a serious West Nile
virus-related illness is extremely small — less than 1 percent of people
who are infected become severely ill. And most people who do become sick
recover fully. You're more likely to develop a severe or fatal infection
based on:

  * *Age.* Being older puts you at higher risk.
  * *Certain medical conditions.* Certain diseases, such as cancer,
    diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease, increase your risk. So
    does receiving an organ transplant.


    Prevention

Your best bet for preventing West Nile virus and other mosquito-borne
illnesses is to avoid exposure to mosquitoes and eliminate standing
water, where mosquitoes breed.

  * Unclog roof gutters.
  * Empty unused swimming pools or empty standing water on pool covers.
  * Change water in birdbaths and pet bowls regularly.
  * Remove old tires or unused containers that might hold water and
    serve as a breeding place for mosquitoes.
  * Install or repair screens on windows and doors.

To reduce your exposure to mosquitoes:

  * Avoid unnecessary outdoor activity when mosquitoes are most
    prevalent, such as at dawn, dusk and early evening.
  * Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants when outdoors.
  * Apply mosquito repellent containing an Environmental Protection
    Agency-registered insect repellent to your skin and clothing. Choose
    the concentration based on the hours of protection you need — the
    higher the percentage (concentration) of the active ingredient, the
    longer the repellent will work. Follow the directions on the
    package, paying special attention to recommendations for use on
    children.
  * When outside, cover your infant's stroller or playpen with mosquito
    netting.

By Mayo Clinic Staff <https://www.mayoclinic.org/about-this-site/welcome>
Request an Appointment at Mayo Clinic
<https://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>
Diagnosis & treatment

<https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20350325>
Aug. 11, 2017
Print
<https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320?p=1>
Share on: Facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?url=http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>Twitter
<http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320&text=West%20Nile%20virus%20-%20Symptoms%20and%20causes%20-%20&hashtags=>
References <#!>

 1. West Nile virus. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
    http://www.cdc.gov/westnile/index.html. Accessed Oct. 4, 2015.
 2. Petersen LR. Clinical manifestations and diagnosis of West Nile
    virus infection. http://www.uptodate.com/home. Accessed Oct. 4, 2015.
 3. Petersen LR. Treatment and prevention of West Nile virus infection.
    Accessed Oct. 4, 2015.


Related

  * Symptom Checker
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/symptom-checker/select-symptom/itt-20009075>
  * EEG (electroencephalogram)
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/eeg/basics/definition/prc-20014093>
  * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/lumbar-puncture/basics/definition/prc-20012679>
  * Headache
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/symptoms/headache/basics/definition/sym-20050800>
  * Fatigue
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/symptoms/fatigue/basics/definition/sym-20050894>
  * Eye pain
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/symptoms/eye-pain/basics/definition/sym-20050744>


West Nile virus

  * Symptoms & causes
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20350320>
  * Diagnosis & treatment
    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/west-nile-virus/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20350325>


    Advertisement

Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue
supports our not-for-profit mission.

*Advertising & Sponsorship*

  * Policy
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-this-site/advertising-sponsorship-policy>
  * Opportunities
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-this-site/advertising-sponsorship>
  * Ad Choices <http://www.aboutads.info/choices/>


      Mayo Clinic Marketplace

Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters
from Mayo Clinic.

  * 4 Simple Steps to a Joy-Filled Life

    <https://order.store.mayoclinic.com/books/gnweb32?utm_source=MC-DotOrg-Text&utm_campaign=Happiness-Book&utm_medium=Link&utm_content=MCHH>
  * NEW! Mayo Clinic Guide to Integrative Medicine

    <https://order.store.mayoclinic.com/books/gnweb42?utm_source=MC-DotOrg-Text&utm_medium=Link&utm_campaign=IntegrativeMed-Book&utm_content=INT>
  * Stop Osteoporosis in its Tracks

    <https://order.store.mayoclinic.com/books/gnweb27?utm_source=MC-DotOrg-Text&utm_medium=Link&utm_campaign=Osteoporosis-Book&utm_content=OSTEO>
  * Mayo Clinic on Healthy Aging

    <https://order.store.mayoclinic.com/books/gnweb20?utm_source=MC-DotOrg-Text&utm_campaign=Aging-Book&utm_medium=Link&utm_content=AGE>
  * The Mayo Clinic Diet Online

    <https://register.diet.mayoclinic.org/control?promo=3280215A-C0C9-4CD3-B38C-BD6ADE4B37C0&xid=partner_mcd&awardid=mayoclinic&utm_source=partner_mcd&utm_medium=display&utm_campaign=site_store_text&utm_content=std_4>

CON-20154561

  * Patient Care & Health Information

    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-care-and-health-information>
  * Diseases & Conditions

    <https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions>
  * West Nile virus

    <#>

Mayo Clinic <http://www.mayoclinic.org/>

  * Request Appointment <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>
  * Contact Us <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-mayo-clinic/contact>
  * About Mayo Clinic <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-mayo-clinic>
  * Employees
    <https://gpsnetx.mayoclinic.org/psi/content/staticemployee/showpage/employeeindex>
  * Find a Job <http://www.mayoclinic.org/jobs>
  * Site Map <http://www.mayoclinic.org/site-help/site-map>
  * About This Site <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-this-site>

  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/MayoClinic>
  * Facebook

    <http://www.facebook.com/MayoClinic>
  * Google

    <http://google.com/+MayoClinic>
  * YouTube

    <http://www.youtube.com/user/mayoclinic>
  * Pinterest

    <http://pinterest.com/mayoclinic/>

Mayo Clinic is a not-for-profit organization. Make a donation.

<https://philanthropy.mayoclinic.org/donatemc?_ga=1.106295754.875548221.1406903985>



    Patient Care & Health Info

  * Healthy Lifestyle <http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle>
  * Symptoms A-Z <http://www.mayoclinic.org/symptoms>
  * Diseases & Conditions A-Z
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions>
  * Tests & Procedures A-Z <http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures>
  * Drugs & Supplements A-Z <http://www.mayoclinic.org/drugs-supplements>
  * Appointments <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments>
  * Patient & Visitor Guide
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-visitor-guide>
  * Billing & Insurance
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-visitor-guide/billing-insurance>
  * Patient Online Services
    <https://gpsnetx.mayoclinic.org/psi/content/staticpatient/showpage/patientonline>


    Departments & Centers

  * Doctors & Medical Staff
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/appointments/find-a-doctor>
  * Medical Departments & Centers
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/departments-centers/index>
  * Research Centers & Programs
    <http://www.mayo.edu/research/centers-programs>
  * About Mayo Clinic <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-mayo-clinic>
  * Contact Us <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-mayo-clinic/contact>


    Research

  * Explore Research Labs <http://www.mayo.edu/research/labs>
  * Find Clinical Trials <http://www.mayo.edu/research/clinical-trials>
  * Research Faculty <http://www.mayo.edu/research/faculty>
  * Postdoctoral Fellowships
    <http://www.mayo-clinic-jobs.com/go/Postdoctoral-Temporary-Research/343401/?utm_source=careersite&utm_campaign=PostDocResearch>
  * Discovery's Edge Magazine <http://discoverysedge.mayo.edu/>
  * Search Publications <http://www.mayo.edu/research/publications>
  * Training Grant Positions
    <http://www.mayo.edu/research/training-grant-positions>


    Education

  * Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science
    <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-college-of-medicine-and-science>
  * Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences
    <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-graduate-school-of-biomedical-sciences>
  * Mayo Clinic School of Medicine
    <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-school-of-medicine>
  * Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development
    <http://www.mayo.edu/cme/>
  * Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education
    <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-school-of-graduate-medical-education>
  * Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
    <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-school-of-health-sciences>
  * Alumni Center <http://www.mayo.edu/mayo-clinic-alumni-center>


    For Medical Professionals

  * Provider Relations
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medical-professionals/provider-relations>
  * Online Services for Referring Physicians
    <https://medprof.mayoclinic.org/>
  * Video Center <http://medprofvideos.mayoclinic.org/>
  * Publications
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/medical-professionals/publications>
  * Continuing Medical Education <http://www.mayo.edu/cme/>
  * Mayo Medical Laboratories <http://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/>


    Products & Services

  * Healthy Living Program
    <https://healthyliving.mayoclinic.org/?mc_id=global&utm_source=mayoclinicorgmainnav&utm_medium=l&utm_content=healthylivingprogram&utm_campaign=hlp&geo=national&placementsite=enterprise&cauid=100469>
  * Sports Medicine
    <https://sportsmedicine.mayoclinic.org/?mc_id=global&utm_source=mayoclinicorgmainnav&utm_medium=l&utm_content=sportsmedicine&utm_campaign=smc&geo=national&placementsite=enterprise&cauid=101655>
  * Books and more ...
    <https://marketplace.mayoclinic.com/?utm_source=MC-DotOrg-Nav&utm_medium=Link&utm_campaign=Marketplace-Home&utm_content=MKTPLC>
  * Mayo Clinic Health Letter <http://healthletter.mayoclinic.com/>
  * Medical Products
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/patient-visitor-guide/minnesota/becoming-a-patient/shops-supplies/mayo-clinic-store>
  * Population Health and Wellness Programs
    <http://gbs.mayoclinic.org/solutions.php>
  * Medical Laboratory Services <http://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/>
  * Mayo Clinic Voice Apps <http://www.mayoclinic.org/voice/apps>

Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and
Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below.

  * Terms and Conditions
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-this-site/terms-conditions-use-policy>
  * Privacy Policy
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-this-site/privacy-policy>
  * Notice of Privacy Practices
    <http://www.mayo.edu/pmts/mc5200-mc5299/mc5256-01.pdf>
  * Reprint Permissions
    <http://www.mayoclinic.org/about-this-site/reprint-permissions>

A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial
personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic
Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks
of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.

This website is certified by Health On the Net Foundation. Click to
verify.
<https://www.healthonnet.org/HONcode/Conduct.html?HONConduct636199> This
site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
<http://www.healthonnet.org/HONcode/Conduct.html> information:
verify here.
<https://www.healthonnet.org/HONcode/Conduct.html?HONConduct636199>

© 1998-2017 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER).
All rights reserved.

